A young person’s school attendance and work schedule


A young person is required to go to school under the Loi sur l’instruction publique if they:
are under 16 years of age and do not have their Secondary 5 diploma
turn 16 during the school year. In this case, they must go to school until the last day of the school year
Special provisions concerning a young person’s work schedule

Important
As of September 1, 2023, the work schedule of a young person who is required to go to school under the Loi sur l’instruction publique must not exceed 17 hours a week or more than 10 hours from Monday to Friday.
These conditions do not apply during periods when there is no school for more than 7 days, such as during the holiday season, spring break or the summer holidays.

The employer must ensure that the young person’s work schedule:
allows them to be in class during school hours
allows them to be at home at night, that is, between 11 p.m. on one day and 6 a.m. the following morning
The obligation to allow the young person to be at home at night does not apply if they:
deliver newspapers
create or interpret works in a field of artistic endeavour referred to in section 1 of the Loi sur le statut professionnel des artistes des arts visuels, du cinéma, du disque, de la littérature, des métiers d’art et de la scène
work for a social or community organization, such as a vacation camp or a recreational centre, if the young person’s conditions of employment require that they be housed at their place of employment and if they are not required to go to school the following day
do occasional babysitting
Example of the work schedule of a young person who is required to attend school


Nicolas
Nicolas works in a restaurant. He will turn 16 on July 18, 2023.
Nicolas has to attend school until at least June 2024, since he will turn 16 during the school year, which extends from July 1 to June 30 according to the Loi sur l'instruction publique. He is therefore prohibited from working nights between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. until June 30, 2024.
Starting in September 2023, he will be able to work up to 17 hours a week, including a maximum of 10 hours from Monday to Friday.
At the end of the school year, he will be able to work nights or more than 17 hours a week, since he will no longer be obliged to attend school.


Quick reference for a young worker’s work schedule
Age
Conditions
Under 14 years of age

Can only work in certain jobs if the employer obtains written consent from their parent or guardian using the “Consent to work for a child under 14 years of age (in French only)” form


Under 16 years of age and does not have a Secondary 5 diploma
			or
			Turned 16 during the school year but is required to go to school


Their schedule must allow them to go to school during school hours
Their schedule must allow them to be at home between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. (except for certain jobs)
As of September 2023: maximum of 17 hours per week, including a maximum of 10 hours from Monday to Friday

Under 18 years of age and is not required to go to school

No work schedule restrictions




        See also      


 Je pense à embaucher de jeunes travailleurs




 Workers 14 years of age or over







        Forms and publications      


Consentement pour le travail d’un enfant de moins de 14 ans (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 84.2 à 84.7





Interpretation Guide – Section  84.2 to 84.7










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers
Active page


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank