Admissibility of a claim


In the event of a work accident or occupational disease, workers must fill out the Worker's claim form to receive benefits or claim certain expenses.
In the case of a claim for an occupational disease, workers must also fill out the appendix to the Worker’s claim form corresponding to their medical situation.
After a claim is filed, the CNESST examines its admissibility.
Eligibility criteria
Fill out the Worker's claim form
This form contains specific questions relevant to the examination of the claim. It must be filled out and accompanied by the corresponding appendix in the case of a claim for an occupational disease. Therefore, it is very important that the worker provide the CNESST with information that is complete, accurate and relevant to the examination of their claim. For example, they may enclose a medical certificate, receipts or prescriptions.
File the claim within the required time period
The worker has 6 months to send us their Worker's claim form when they have a work accident or believe they are suffering from an occupational disease. Therefore, it is important to file the claim as soon as possible.
For a work accident, this period begins when the employment injury occurs.
In the case of an occupational disease, this period begins when one of the following situations occurs:
the worker's healthcare professional diagnoses the disease
the worker becomes aware of the probable relationship between their disease and their work
Undergo medical examinations
The worker is obliged to report for medical examinations and to comply with all treatments prescribed by the treating healthcare professional.
The employer and the CNESST may request an independent medical assessment. The employer and the CNESST may request an assessment by a healthcare professional other than the one the worker initially consulted.
Claim eligibility analysis
For the claim to be admissible, it must be established that the worker has an employment injury. The CNESST is responsible for determining whether the worker’s injury is related to their work. Upon receipt of all of the documents required to process the claim, the CNESST will render a decision concerning the eligibility of the claim within 15 days in the case of a work accident or within 60 days in the case of an occupational disease.
These time frames exclude claims in the event of a death or occupational deafness. In these cases, more time may be required to process the claim.
Whether the claim is accepted or rejected, when the CNESST renders its decision, it informs the worker and the employer in writing.
If the claim is admissible, the worker will be able to receive benefits within 10 days following the decision concerning eligibility. They can also claim certain expenses within 20 days following receipt of the application.
If the worker disagrees with the decision rendered by the CNESST, they may contest the decision.


If you have filled a claim in MonEspace CNESST
The CNESST will inform you by email of the status of your file. You will be asked to consult messages and documents placed in this secure space.






        Forms and publications      


Worker's claim (Formulaire)



Appendices to the Worker’s claim in the case of an occupational disease (Formulaire)



Application for reimbursement of expenses (Formulaire)



En cas d’accident ou de maladie du travail… voici ce qu’il faut savoir! (Document d’information)








Secondary menu


 Workers
 Active page


Compensation and reimbursements


Compensation


Income replacement indemnity


Income replacement indemnity for the first 14 days


Compensation for bodily injury


Retirement plan indemnity


Death benefits


RL-5 and T5007 tax slips




Reimbursements and allowance


Personal home assistance allowance


Reimbursement for damaged clothing


Reimbursement for damaged orthotic or prosthetic devices


Reimbursement for medical aid


Reimbursement of the cost of routine home maintenance work


Reimbursement of travel, meal and accommodation expenses


Remboursement de frais liés aux formations pour les mécanismes de prévention propres à un chantier de construction






Work accident or occupational disease
Active page


Occupational disease


Work accident


What should you do if you have a work accident?


The worker’s claim process: step by step


Admissibility of a claim


Choosing between the CNESST and another compensation plan


Relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank