Adoption


Parental leave is provided for workers who adopt a child so that they can take time to welcome the child.
Five-day leave for adoption
When a child is adopted, both adoptive parents are entitled to 5 days leave regardless of the length of their uninterrupted service with their employer. The first 2 days are paid. A person who adopts their spouse’s child is also entitled to this leave.  
Parental leave
Each parent who adopts a child is entitled to a parental leave. Parental leave may begin, at the earliest, the week in which the child is entrusted to the adoptive parents or when the parents leave work to travel outside Québec to pick up their child.
In the case of an adoption, the child’s age does not affect the right to parental leave.

Example
Stéphane adopts the 20-year-old son of his wife, Christine. Stéphane is entitled to parental leave even if the child he adopts is 20 years old when he is adopted.

In the case of a same-sex couple, both parents are entitled to parental leave if the relationship between the child and their fathers or mothers was established at the time of the adoption judgment.
Family or parental obligations
Parents who adopt a child also have the right to take time off work to fulfil family or parental obligations, such as when their child is sick.



        See also      


Régime québécois d’assurance parentale (RQAP)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave
Active page


Adoption or birth
Active page


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank