Choosing between the CNESST and another compensation plan


Workers who have a work accident or contract an occupational disease outside Québec may choose to be compensated by the CNESST or by another organization that administers a compensation plan. In this context, one of the following 3 situations must apply to you at the time of the event:
you are domiciled outside Québec
your work accident occurred or your occupational disease was contracted outside Québec (e.g., a worker domiciled in Québec who is employed by a Québec company has a work accident while working in Ontario)
you were exposed to contaminants or materials outside Québec that caused an occupational disease
Since you cannot be compensated by more than one organization, you will have to make a choice and inform us.
Which compensation plan should I choose?
Before making your choice, you should consult the list of benefits and reimbursements you would be entitled to with the CNESST. It is important to compare this with what you would be entitled to under the other organization’s plan.
Once you have made your decision, you will have to confirm your choice by completing the “Option en vertu de la Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles” form. The form must be signed and sent to us no later than 6 months after the date of the work accident or the date a physician informed you that you had an occupational disease.
We will examine your claim once we have received the completed and signed form. If you choose to be compensated by another organization, the CNESST will render a decision of refusal and you will be able to submit a claim to the organization you have chosen.
If you do not inform the CNESST of your choice after the 6-month period, we will conclude that you are waiving the benefits provided under the Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles.



        Forms and publications      


Option et avis à la CNESST - Hors Québec (article 452 LATMP) (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Workers
 Active page


Compensation and reimbursements


Compensation


Income replacement indemnity


Income replacement indemnity for the first 14 days


Compensation for bodily injury


Retirement plan indemnity


Death benefits


RL-5 and T5007 tax slips




Reimbursements and allowance


Personal home assistance allowance


Reimbursement for damaged clothing


Reimbursement for damaged orthotic or prosthetic devices


Reimbursement for medical aid


Reimbursement of the cost of routine home maintenance work


Reimbursement of travel, meal and accommodation expenses


Remboursement de frais liés aux formations pour les mécanismes de prévention propres à un chantier de construction






Work accident or occupational disease
Active page


Occupational disease


Work accident


What should you do if you have a work accident?


The worker’s claim process: step by step


Admissibility of a claim


Choosing between the CNESST and another compensation plan


Relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank