Clothing industry workers




The following rates will be effective May 1, 2023:
the general minimum wage rate will increase to $15.25 per hour
the tipped minimum wage rate will be $12.20 per hour
the minimum wage rate for: :
	strawberry pickers: $1.21 per kilogram
raspberry pickers: $4.53 per kilogram





Specific provisions apply to clothing industry workers. The clothing industry refers to the women’s and men’s clothing industry, the men’s and boys’ shirt industry and the leather glove industry.
Staff in clothing stores are not part of the clothing industry.  
Specific provisions for clothing industry workers
Minimum wage
The current minimum wage rate for clothing industry workers is $15.25  an hour. This rate came into effect on May 1, 2020.
Vacation
Length of vacation and vacation indemnities are different from those of other workers. They are calculated as follows:

Length of vacation and indemnity amount

Uninterrupted service at the end of the reference year
Length of vacation
Indemnity
Less than one year
1 day per full month of uninterrupted service, not exceeding 2 weeks
4% of the gross annual wages earned during the reference year
1 year to 3 years less 1 day
3 weeks, including 2 consecutive weeks 
6% of the gross annual wages earned during the reference year
3 years or more
4 weeks, including 3 consecutive weeks 
8%  of the gross annual wages earned during the reference year
Statutory holidays
Clothing industry workers are also entitled to the following days off in addition to the statutory holidays already provided for:
January 2
Good Friday and Easter Monday
Standard work week
For clothing industry workers, a standardwork week is 39 hours. After 39 hours, overtime begins.
Death or suicide of a loved one
In the event of the death or suicide of a loved one, a clothing industry worker is entitled to 5 days off, including 3 days with pay, for the death or funeral of: 
their spouse
their child
the child of their spouse
their mother or father
their brother or sister
They are also entitled to 1 day off with pay for the death or funeral of: 
their grandparents 
their parents-in-law (mother or father of their spouse) 
They may also be absent from work for 1 day without pay for the death or funeral of: 
their son-in-law or daughter-in-law 
one of their grandchildren 
their brother-in-law or sister-in-law (brother or sister of their spouse)  
While they are absent, their employment relationship is protected. 



        Laws and regulations      


Règlement sur des normes du travail particulières à certains secteurs de l’industrie du vêtement





Interpretation Guide – Règlement sur les normes du travail particulières à certains secteurs de l'industrie du vêtement (chapitre N-1.1, a. 92.1; chapitre N-1.1, r. 4)










Secondary menu


 Categories of workers
 Active page


Farm workers


Personnel placement agency workers


Self-employed workers


Clothing industry workers


Temporary foreign workers


Seasonal workers


Workers who are not covered













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank