Collective dismissal


Notice of collective dismissal
An employer must post a notice of collective dismissal in their company in accordance with the prescribed notice period. The notice period varies depending on the number of workers affected.
Time between the notice and the departure of workers during a collective dismissal
Number of workers affected
Length of time between the notice and the workers’ departure
10 to 99 workers
8 weeks
100 to 299 workers
12 weeks
300 workers or more
16 weeks
The notice of collective dismissal must include:
the name and address of the employer or the establishment concerned and, if applicable, its Québec entreprise number
the sector of activity
the name and address of the workers’ associations, where applicable
the reason for the group termination
the scheduled date of the group termination
the number of workers who may be affected by the group termination
the name of an employer representative, their title and a telephone number and email address where they can be reached
To produce a notice of collective dismissal, you can use the “Avis de licenciement collectif ” form or the online service “Produire un avis de licenciement collectif” in the Zone Entreprise of clicSÉQUR – Entreprises.
The original copy of the notice of collective dismissal must be sent to the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Solidarity:


By email:
avislicenciementcollectif@mtess.gouv.qc.ca




By fax:
(418) 643-7901




By mail:
Direction générale des mesures et services d’emploi
	Ministère du Travail, de l’Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale
	1er étage
	425, rue Jacques-Parizeau
	Québec (Québec) G1R 4Z1


A copy must be sent to the CNESST:


By email:
avislicenciementcollectif@cnesst.gouv.qc.ca




By mail:
Bureau de la Vice-présidence aux normes du travail
	Commission des normes, de l’équité, de la santé et de la sécurité du travail
	Hall Est, 7e étage
	400, boul. Jean-Lesage
	Québec (Québec)  G1K 8W1


Send the notice of collective dismissal, where applicable, to the certified association, such as a union, that represents the workers affected by the termination. Post the notice of collective dismissal in a visible and easily accessible place in the establishment concerned
If the notice of collective dismissal is not sent in accordance with the prescribed notice period, the employer may be liable for a fine of $1 500 per week that will be credited to the Fonds de développement du marché du travail.
Indemnity
An employer who does not give sufficient notice must pay the affected workers an indemnity. The indemnity must be equal to the regular wages they would have earned between the date on which the notice should have been provided and the termination of their employment. Overtime must not be included when calculating the indemnity.
In the case of a worker who earns tips, the amount of the reported or attributed tips is considered when calculating the indemnity.
The indemnity must be paid at the time of termination of employment. In the case of a layoff for more than 6 months, the indemnity must be paid no later than 6 months after the layoff date.
Collective dismissal of 50 workers or more
When the number of workers affected by a collective dismissal is equal to or greater than 50, the ministre du Travail, de l’Emploi et de la Solidarité sociale may ask the employer to participate in establishing a reclassification assistance committee. The Minister may also give the employer a financial contribution for the committee’s operating costs.

Important
A notice of termination of employment must also be sent to all workers affected by the group termination.
If workers are entitled to indemnities with respect to the notice of termination of employment and the notice of collective dismissal, they will receive the higher indemnity to which they are entitled. The indemnities are not cumulative.




        Forms and publications      


Avis de licenciement collectif (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 84.0.1





Règlement sur les normes du travail – Article 35.0.1





Interpretation Guide - Section 84.0.1 to 84.0.15










Secondary menu


 Termination of employment
 Active page


Termination, layoff, dismissal and resignation


Notice of termination of employment and indemnity


Collective dismissal


Insolvency and bankruptcy of a company


How to claim sums owed in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy


How to claim wage adjustments in the event of a company’s bankruptcy or insolvency




Sale, merger or purchase of a company


How to calculate the regular wage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank