Contact us






















 
The Charter of the French language and its regulations govern the consultation of English-language content.







General information




By phone
Canada and the U.S.: 1 844 838-0808
For calls from outside Canada and the U.S.: 1 514 906-3250
Telephone service operating hours
Monday: 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Tuesday: 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Wednesday: 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Thursday: 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Friday: 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Telephone service is not available on statutory holidays.



Make sure you have the following information on hand:




For a worker’s file
File number
Date of event  


For an employer’s file
Quebec enterprise number (NEQ) or legal entity number (ENL)







Date of event


For workers who benefit from the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program, the date of the event is the issue date indicated on the Certificat visant le retrait préventif et l'affectation de la travailleuse enceinte ou qui allaite inscrite sur ce certificat.

Close



Online
You can send us your questions using the online request for information form.
Online request for information



 


Send  a document 




Using our online services

Employers and workers
You can send us your document by secure messaging, available in Mon Espace CNESST.
To submit a document related to a labour standards complaint or recourse, use the electronic transmission of documents service.
Health care professionals
If you are a health care professional, you can submit a report, a form or any other document related to a compensation-rehabilitation file using our online document submission service (in French only).
Workers’ representatives
If you are a workers’ representative, you can submit a form or any other document related to a compensation-rehabilitation file using our online document submission service (in French only).

By fax
Document related to a compensation and rehabilitation file

You can fax us your document at 1 855 722-8081.

By mail
You can also send us documents by mail:

CNESST
C. P. 1200, succ. Terminus
Québec (Québec)  G1K 7E2




 


Request related to a CNESST file





Follow-up of a compensation request following a work accident or occupational disease

You can consult your file in Mon Espace CNESST, to find out, among other things, whether a decision has been rendered in your file or if a new communication has been placed in your file.
You can also contact the person in charge of your file.

Appointment with the person in charge of your file

Please check your appointment notice for instructions concerning your appointment. If you have lost the address, contact the person responsible for your file.
Consult our office locations as needed.

Notifying the CNESST of a change in your situation

You can make a change to a compensation and rehabilitation file via Mon Espace CNESST. Select the option Signaler l’évolution de ma situation.
For all other types of files, contact the person responsible for your file by phone.

Reimbursement of amounts overpaid

For reimbursement of amounts overpaid (in French only), contact your bank.





 


Report a dangerous situation




You can contact the on-call inspector by calling 1 844 838-0808, option 1. You will remain anonymous.











Complaint related to your workplace
You can file a complaint related to your workplace with the CNESST for a variety of reasons. Learn about the different reasons for complaints and recourses.
Initiate a complaint process






Complaint concerning the quality of services received
It is very important for us to offer you quality services and satisfy your needs.
If you are dissatisfied with the services you received, contact the person in charge of your file.
If, despite the efforts made to serve you, you are still dissatisfied, you can file a service quality complaint.






Comments and suggestions
If you wish to submit your comments and suggestions without filing a complaint, you can use our online comments form (in French only).