Death and funeral


If you are visiting this page after a relative’s death, we understand that this is a difficult time for you.
Workers may be absent from work between the time of death and the funeral in the event of a relative’s death. While they are absent, their employment relationship is protected.
Days of absence
A worker may be absent from work for 5 days, including 2 with pay, for the death or preparation of the funeral of:
their spouse
their child
their spouse’s child
their father, mother or one of their parents
their brother or sister
The salary that the employer must pay them for the 2 days of absence with pay is equivalent to what they would have earned if they had worked.
A worker may also be absent from work for 1 day without pay for the death or funeral of:
their son in law or daughter in law
one of their grandparents
one of their grandchildren
one of their parents in law (their spouse’s father, mother or one of their spouse’s parents)
their brother in law or sister in law (their spouse’s brother or sister)
A worker who is absent must notify their employer as soon as possible.
All workers may be absent under these circumstances, regardless of the length of their uninterrupted service and their employment status (full time, part time, temporary, casual or on call).
Example of absence for a death 

Rosa works at an hourly rate of $28, 7 hours a day, from Monday to Friday. She receives $196 per day of work ($28 x 7 hours of work = $196).
Rosa was absent from work on Monday following the announcement of her father’s death. She also asked her employer to take Friday off for her father’s funeral.
Therefore, her employer will pay her $392 in total for these 2 days of absence ($196 x 2 days = $392).
The other 3 days for which she had to be absent to organize the funeral and to settle some administrative matters are not paid by the employer.


 



        Forms and publications      


Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave
Active page


Adoption or birth


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank