Deductions


An employer may make deductions from a worker’s pay only if required to do so by: 
an Act (for example, taxes) 
a regulation 
a court order (for example, a child support payment)  
a collective agreement or a decree  
a mandatory supplemental pension plan 
Any other wage deductions must be authorized in writing by the worker. The worker’s authorization must specify: 
the reason for the deduction  
the amount of the deduction  
the duration and frequency of the deduction  
any other necessary information 
The worker may revoke their authorization at any time. They must do so in writing. 
Prohibited deductions
Deductions for costs associated with operating a company are prohibited. For example, debit card or credit card costs. Losses due to shoplifting, accidental damage to equipment or cash register errors may also be considered operating costs.
Voluntary retirement savings plan (VRSP)
A VRSP is a collective retirement savings plan that is intended to encourage all workers in Québec to save for retirement. The amount of the contribution authorized by the worker can be deducted from their pay.
An employer who employs 5 eligible workers or more on December 31 of a given year and 10 eligible workers on June 30 of the following year must establish a voluntary retirement savings plan, or the equivalent, and automatically enrol those workers in the plan. 
To be eligible, workers must: 
be employees
be 18 years of age or older
be credited with 1 year or more of uninterrupted service with their employer
They do not have to do anything to enrol in the plan. However, they may decide to opt out of the plan.
The employer must continue to offer the plan to workers who opted out of it, and offer workers who set their contribution at 0% the possibility of resuming contributions to the plan. 
The employer must do so in the month of December every two years following the date the worker opted out of the plan or set the rate of contribution at 0%.
The retirement savings plan established by the employer may, for example, be:
a voluntary retirement savings plan (VRSP)
a registered retirement savings plan (RRSP)
a tax-free savings account (TSFA)
a registered pension plan (RPP)
Once an employer has established a VRSP, all their workers, without exception, irrespective of their age and length of uninterrupted service, may ask to be enrolled in the plan. The employer is obliged to enrol them in the plan. 
An employer who offers a VRSP must continue to offer it even if the number of workers in the company is reduced to fewer than 10. 



        See also      


Ma paye ça compte  



Retraite Québec






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 39.1 à 51.1





Interpretation Guide – Section 39.1 to 51.1










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay
Active page


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work











Frequently asked questions



  Does an employer have to establish a VRSP if some of their workers have the option of contributing to a pension plan or a TFSA? 


If a TFSA, an RRSP (registered retirement savings plan) or an RPP (registered pension plan) is offered in the company, the employer is obliged to offer a VRSP to eligible employees who cannot contribute to the TFSA, RRSP or RPP.







  What are the possible consequences if an employer does not comply with their obligations under the Voluntary Retirement Savings Plans Act?


A complaint may be filed against the employer with the CNESST. If the complaint leads to criminal proceedings, the employer may be liable for a fine of $500 to $10 000 for failing to offer a VRSP or a fine of $600 to $1200 in other cases under the CNESST’s jurisdiction. Fines are doubled in the event of a repeat offence.







  What are the criteria for calculating the number of eligible workers in a company that has several places of business? 


The number must be calculated based on the legal form of the company  :
Franchises: Count the number of eligible workers in each franchise, since they have different employers 
Employer with a single Québec enterprise number (NEQ) but who manages several places of business: Count the total number of eligible workers in all the places of business 
Employer whose head office is outside Québec: Count the number of eligible workers in the places of business in Québec only, depending on the legal form of the company. 

















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank