Different types of training periods


Trainees may complete different types of training periods.
A workplace observation period consists of accompanying a worker to observe them in the performance of their duties.
A work placement consists of carrying out a real work activity, such as producing or distributing a good or providing a service.
Trainees may also complete:
•    a teaching training period to complete a course or training in a teaching program
•    a training period to learn a new task in a job
•    a refresher training period to further knowledge related to a task in a job
•    a refresher training period to take up a new position in a job
These trainees are covered by all the legislation enforced by the CNESST and they are protected in the event of a work accident (in French only) during the training period, under certain conditions.

NOTE:
An employer may also require a worker to serve a probationary period at the beginning of a job. In this case, it is not a training period and the worker is covered by all the provisions of the Loi sur les normes du travail and must be paid at least at the minimum wage rate.




        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)





Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)





Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)





Projet de loi numéro 14 - Sanctionné (2022, chapitre 2)










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees
Active page


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank