Domestic workers


Domestic workers are people who, in exchange for remuneration, undertake to carry out tasks for an individual, such as:
household chores or maintenance tasks
babysitting or taking care of a person or animal
any other domestic tasks at the individual’s home
acting as a chauffeur or bodyguard
any other tasks strictly related to the individual’s private affairs
Working conditions
As is the case for all workers, it is recommended that the working conditions be clearly established at the time of hiring. These conditions can be established in an employment contract.
Domestic workers’ basic working conditions are the same as those of all workers. For example, domestic workers must receive a wage equal to or higher than the minimum wage.
Specific conditions

Domestic worker living with the employer
The employer cannot demand payment for the room and board of domestic workers who live with them and take their meals at the employer's home.
Personal caregivers
Certain specific conditions apply to personal caregivers.

Rights and obligations
As is the case for all workers, domestic workers have labour rights and obligations (in French only).
Domestic workers who are pregnant or breastfeeding can apply for the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program if their job involves physical hazards to their health or that of their child. Self-employed workers who carry out the same types of activities as those of domestic workers are not entitled to the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program.
Coverage in the event of a work accident or occupational disease
As of April 6, 2022, domestic workers are automatically covered in the event of a work accident or an occupational disease if they work for the same individual at least, as the case may be:
420 hours over a period of 1 year (12 months)
30 hours a week over a period of 7 consecutive weeks
An individual who employs a domestic worker who is automatically covered must register as an employer with the CNESST.
A domestic worker who is not eligible for automatic coverage may request personal protection (in French only) at their own expense.
Complaints and recourses
A domestic worker who believes that their labour rights have not been respected can file a complaint with the CNESST.



        Forms and publications      


Domestic worker : Protection in the event of a work accident or occupational disease and labour standards (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 51.0.1





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 123.4





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 128





Interpretation Guide – Section 123.4





Interpretation Guide – Section 128










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank