Duty to accommodate


When a worker who has been absent as a result of a work accident or occupational disease returns to work, the employer must make a real and reasonable effort to allow the person to return to work. This is called an obligation of reasonable accommodation.
The purpose of the obligation of accommodation is to:
promote the worker's rapid and lasting return to work with their employer
ensure better protection of the employment relationship
prevent discrimination against workers
The employer’s obligations 
The obligation of reasonable accommodation takes several forms, including: 
the obligation to reinstate a worker who is able to do their job, a suitable job or an equivalent job again after the period for exercising their right to return to work has expired 
the employer's obligation to cooperate in implementing rehabilitation measures in their establishment
the employer's obligation to implement another measure to enable the worker to do a suitable job that is available in their establishment, such as adapting tasks and modifying the schedule or the organization of work, if these measures do not change the nature of the job
Determining a worker's ability to work
The employer must provide the CNESST with the information and documents required to determine the worker's ability to do their job, an equivalent job or a suitable job that is available with the employer. 
This may include:
a detailed description of the jobs available with the employer
the physical requirements of these jobs and their availability 
the possibilities for adapting and reorganizing the work
the provisions of the collective agreement, where applicable
The CNESST may ask the employer for access to the work stations in order to render a decision on:
the worker's ability to hold a job with their employer 
the availability of a suitable job with the employer 
If the employer does not cooperate or refuses to reinstate the worker, the CNESST may impose an administrative monetary penalty. This penalty is equivalent to the income replacement indemnity the worker may have been entitled to during the period when the employer was in default.
If the employer disagrees
The employer can show that accommodation imposes undue hardship (in French only) on them. The CNESST will examine the relevance of the information provided by the employer.
The employer may also contest a CNESST decision.



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work
Active page


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank