Falls of more than 3 m


In almost all workplaces, workers are exposed to falls from a height. These accidents are still too frequent, especially since they are easy to avoid.
In construction, there is a risk of falling when a worker erects structures, renovates or finishes exterior walls or installs a roof. In establishments and other workplaces, window washing, chimney sweeping, material handling activities and maintenance are also hazardous tasks.
Falls of more than 3 m are a hazard that can result in sprains, strains, multiple fractures and even death. The employer, by implementing safety measures, and the worker, by applying them, have a shared responsibility to ensure safety when working at a height.
Safety rules for all workplaces

 Zero tolerance
If this rule is not followed, the CNESST will stop the work and those at fault will be liable to criminal prosecution.
Zero tolerance sheet: Fall of more than 3 m
When workers are exposed to a fall of more than 3 m, the employer must install guardrails to prevent falls or use another means that ensures equivalent safety. If this is not possible, they must ensure that workers use a harness secured to an anchor point.
 
ss. 2.9.1 and 2.9.2 of the CSTC
ss. 33.2 et 33.3 of the RSST
ss. 4 et 51 of the RSSM
s. 51(3) of the LSST 

Other mandatory safety measures

Depending on the tasks to be performed, one or more of the following measures must be taken by the employer to ensure the safety of the worker:
change the worker’s work position so that they can work on the ground or on another surface where they are not at risk of falling
		 
		s. 2.9.1.1 of the CSTC
s. 33.2 1˚ of the RSST
			 

use collective safety equipment or devices, for example, a fall surface such as a net, to limit falls
		 
		s. 2.9.1.3 of the CSTC
s. 2.9.3 of the CSTC
s. 33.2.3 of the RSST
s. 354 of the RSST
			 

when the worker needs to use their fall arrest device to maintain their position, for example on a slope, make sure that in addition to their harness they use a means of positioning, such as a plank on brackets, a positioning lanyard or a platform
		 
		s. 2.9.1.4 of the CSTC
s. 33.2.4 of the RSST
			 

install a warning line to :
		replace a guardrail that has been temporarily removed to perform work at a specific location
do bridging or roofing work
			 
ss. 2.9.2, 2.9.4.0 and 2.9.4.1 of the CSTC
ss. 33.4 and 33.5 of the RSST
s. 354.1 of the RSST
			 

make sure harnesses are used in accordance with the regulations
		 
		s. 2.10.12 of the CSTC
s. 2.10.15 of the CSTC
ss. 347, 348 et 349 of the RSST
s. 5 of the RSSM
			 

make sure guardrails are strong enough and are designed in accordance with the regulations
		 
		ss. 3.8.2, 3.8.3 and 3.8.4 of the CSTC
s. 12 of the RSST
s. 66 of the RSSM


Protective measures
Elevating platform
Guardrails
Net
Horizontal safety rail
Harness and fall arrest device












      See also    


Travaux en hauteur – Les avantages de la plateforme élévatrice - vidéo








      Forms and publications    


Affiche - Gardez les pieds au sol, même en hauteur (Document d’information)



Systèmes d'ancrage pour la protection contre les chutes (Document d’information)



Procédure de sauvetage lors des travaux de montage de charpentes métalliques (Document d’information)








      Laws and regulations    


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)





Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)