Family or parental obligations


Workers may be absent from work to fulfil family or parental obligations. During their absence, whether short term or extended, their employment relationship is protected.
Short term absences
A worker may be absent from work for 10 days a year to fulfil obligations relating to:
the care, health or education of their child or their spouse’s child
the health of a family member or a person for whom they act as an informal caregiver
If authorized by the employer, these days of absence may be divided into half days or hours.
The worker must notify their employer as soon as possible of their absence and make reasonable efforts to limit the length of their absence. Under certain circumstances, the employer may ask them to provide a document attesting to the reasons for their absence and the length of the absence.
Days of absence with pay
If a worker is credited with 3 months or more of uninterrupted service with their employer, the first 2 days of absence are with pay if they are absent for any of the following reasons:
non–work-related accident or illness
family obligations relating to the care, health or education of their child or their spouse’s child
family obligations as an informal caregiver for a family member or another person owing to their state of health
organ or tissue donation
domestic or sexual abuse or a criminal offence
They are entitled to a total of 2 days of absence with pay per calendar year (January 1 to December 31). These days may be divided into hours if authorized by the employer.
They may not be deferred from one year to the next or replaced with an indemnity.
These days may not be taken for personal reasons. For example, a worker could not take one of these days to go and sign papers at a notary’s office.
Example of a day of absence with pay

Charles’s father is unable to travel alone for health reasons. He has to have surgery in another city and someone has to go with him. Charles has the right to be absent from work, since he has to take care of his father due to his health. This means that two of the days he is absent could be with pay.

Example of a day of absence without pay

François’s mother asks him to go on a short vacation with her because of her poor health. François cannot say that he will be absent because of his mother’s health, since the real reason for his absence is to go on a trip. This means that he would not be entitled to days of absence with pay to go on a trip with his mother.

How to calculate the pay for the 2 days of absence with pay
Whether the worker is full time or part time or paid by commission, days of absence with pay are calculated in the same way as the statutory holiday indemnity.
Do not hesitate to use monCalcul to estimate the amount.
If the employer authorizes the division of the days into hours, the pay must be calculated based on the number of hours of absence.
If the employer does not authorize the division of the days into hours, a worker who is absent for part of a day takes leave without pay for the time they are absent. They are still entitled to their 2 full days of absence with pay.
Example of how to calculate the pay for an absence divided into hours

Annabelle has to be absent from work for 3 hours because her daughter has an emergency dentist’s appointment. She works 35 hours a week, 7 hours a day, and earns $18 an hour. How will her employer calculate her pay for this absence with pay?
Calculation of the wages earned during the 4 weeks of pay preceding the absence:
	140 h (35+35+35+35) x $18 = $2,520
Calculation of the amount to be paid for one day of absence
	$2,520 ÷ 20 = $126
Proportion of the amount based on the number of hours of absence:
	$126 ÷ 7 h = $18/h
	$18 x 3 hours of absence = $54
	 18 x 4 hours worked = $72
Annabelle’s employer will have to pay her $54 in addition to the 4 hours she worked that day:
	$72 (wages) +$54 (amount for the 3 h she was absent) = $126
Do not hesitate to use monCalcul to calculate the indemnity.

Extended absence
A worker may be absent for:
up to 16 weeks over a 12 month period when they have to stay with a relative because of a serious accident or a serious illness.
up to 27 weeks over a 12 month period if the person who is seriously ill has a life threatening illness
up to 36 weeks over a 12 month period if the person who is seriously ill or had an accident is a minor child



        See also      


 monCalcul







        Forms and publications      


Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave
Active page


Adoption or birth


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank