First Aid in the Workplace training providers and instructors


Providers
We have training providers (in French only) in every administrative region in Québec. Each provider is responsible for training in the regions they are assigned in the contract with the CNESST. 
Procedure for becoming recognized as a first aid training provider by the CNESST
You must respond to a request for qualifications on the SEAO website to apply to have your file examined. When a provider obtains a contract with the CNESST, they can then hire a CNESST-certified instructor.  

Next request for qualifications
The next request for qualifications for first aid training in the workplace and in forestry will be in fall 2025.

Instructors
Instructors who are certified by the CNESST to provide the First Aid in the Workplace course specialize in teaching first aid to adults. They can only work for service providers that have a contract with the CNESST. Instructors cannot work for themselves and offer their services to employers in Québec.
Requirements to become an instructor
In addition to basic first aid, candidates must have a thorough knowledge of the material in Secourisme en milieu de travail, Guide pratique du secouriste en milieu de travail – protocoles d’intervention and Guide pédagogique du formateur. They must also:
be 18 years of age or older 
have more than one year of experience in first aid  
have a valid first aid instructor card from one of these national agencies: 
	St. John Ambulance: General First Aid Instructor
Canadian Red Cross: First Aid Instructor
Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada: First Aid Instructor
Lifesaving Society: First Aid Instructor

be qualified as a first responder or the equivalent 
pass the CNESST's instructors examination 
	the examination is held 4 times a year

meet the criteria on the CNESST’s supervision assessment checklist
be sponsored by a provider  
How to register for the instructors examination 
To register for the CNESST’s instructors examination, you must send us a completed and signed Demande d’inscription à l’examen (in French only) along with the following documents:
a copy of your last diploma that is recognized in Québec, if applicable
a copy of the certificate showing that you completed the first responder training course – 60 hours (or the equivalent) 
a copy of your curriculum vitae (CV) 
a certified cheque, money order or bank draft for $50 payable to the CNESST 
a letter from the provider certifying that they are sponsoring you 
The documents must be sent to the attention of the regional officer in charge of the First Aid in the Workplace program in your region before the registration deadline.  

Examination dates for 2023
February 11
April 1
May 27
October 14




        See also      


 Contrats et appels d’offres publics




 Secourisme en milieu de travail application – Mobile app







        Forms and publications      


Demande d’inscription à l’examen - Secourisme en milieu de travail (Formulaire)



Liste provinciale des organismes de formation - Secouriste en milieu de travail (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Règlement sur les normes minimales de premiers secours et de premiers soins










Secondary menu


 First aid in the workplace
 Active page


First Aid in the Workplace program


What it means to be a first aider in the workplace


Who pays what for first aid in the workplace?


First Aid in the Workplace training providers and instructors


Register of Accidents, Incidents and First Aid


First aid equipment













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank