Five days of leave


Both parents (biological or adoptive) may be absent from work for 5 days, the first 2 days of which are paid, for:
the birth of a child, including a child born through surrogacy (surrogate mother)
the adoption of a child
a termination of pregnancy that occurs as of the 20th week of pregnancy
A person who has given birth to a child as a surrogate is also entitled to this leave.
This right to be absent from work applies to all workers, regardless of the length of their uninterrupted service and their employment status (full time, part time, temporary, casual or on call).
The salary that the employer must pay for the 2 days of absence with pay is equivalent to what the person would have earned if they had worked.
If the parent is already on one of the following leaves, they are not entitled to 5 days of leave:
Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth.
Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child.
Example of a person who is entitled to 5 days of leave

Carolanne’s due date is October 23. She had planned to start her maternity leave on October 9, two weeks before her due date. However, she gives birth earlier than expected, on September 30.
Therefore, Carolanne is entitled to 5 days of leave, the first 2 days of which are paid, since she was not already on maternity leave. In this case, her maternity leave will begin the week after she gives birth.

This leave can be added to other leaves related to the birth or adoption of a child. It must be taken within 15 days of the child’s arrival in the home or the termination of pregnancy.
In a surrogacy situation, this period applies as of the birth of the child for the person who gave birth to it. For the intended parents of the child, this period applies from the time the child is entrusted to them.
Example of 5 days of leave taken in a surrogacy situation

Stéphanie carried Édouard’s and his partner’s child as a surrogate carrier. The baby was born on September 1 and was entrusted to Édouard and his partner on September 2. Stéphanie, who gave birth to the baby, is entitled to 5 days of leave because she is not already on maternity leave. She must take the 5 days of leave in the 15 days following the baby’s birth.
Édouard and his partner are also entitled to this leave. They must take it within 15 days from the time the child is entrusted to them.

At the worker’s request, this leave may be divided into days. It can also be divided into hours if the employer agrees.
Informing the employer
The worker must inform their employer of their absence as soon as possible.



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave
Active page


Adoption or birth
Active page


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank