For a Safe Maternity Experience Program


Pregnant or breastfeeding workers can apply for the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program if their job involves physical hazards to their health or that of their child.
The program
The objective of the program is to allow pregnant or breastfeeding workers whose work involves physical hazards to their health or that of their child to continue to work. These workers may be assigned to another position or other duties or, if this is not possible, be entitled to preventive withdrawal.
Eligibility requirements
The program is intended for pregnant or breastfeeding workers who:
have a job that involves physical hazards to themselves or to the child they are carrying or breastfeeding
are fit for work
are available for assignment to other duties
To apply for the program, the worker must give her “Certificat visant le retrait préventif et l'affectation de la travailleuse enceinte ou qui allaite” to her employer.
A copy of the certificate is sent to the CNESST. The CNESST determines whether a worker is eligible for the program based on the information on the certificate. It transmits its decision by means of a written notice.
Who is not eligible?
Self-employed worker whose business is not a legal entity
Worker employed outside Québec even if her place of residence is in Québec
Worker employed by an employer who does not have an establishment in Québec
Worker covered by the Kahnawà:ke Plan
Worker employed by a company under federal jurisdiction
Student intern
Volunteer
Person who works in a Government of Quebec or Government of Canada program and who is not considered a worker under the Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail 
Roles and responsibilities
Various people are involved when a pregnant or breastfeeding worker wants to apply for the program. Whether it is the worker, her employer or the physicians consulted, all have an important role to play.
Learn about the worker's role and responsibilitiesLearn about the employer’s role and responsibilitiesLearn about the role and responsibilities of the physician(s) consulted



        See also      


Complaints and recourses






        Forms and publications      


Travailler en sécurité pour une maternité sans danger (Document d’information)



Certificat visant l’affectation ou le retrait préventif de la travailleuse enceinte ou qui allaite (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST) – Articles 40 à 48.2





Règlement sur le certificat délivré pour le retrait préventif et l'affectation de la travailleuse enceinte ou qui allaite 










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank