0 items




Forms and publications
Display: by date of publication, from the most recent to the oldest 


















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 238.65 KB)







Complaint Act Respecting Industrial Accidents Occupational Diseases section 32 Act Respecting Occupational Health Safety section 227


Complete this form if you are a worker and believe that you have been illegally penalized because you suffered an employment injury or exercised a right under either statute.​​





Download file (pdf | 238.65 KB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 384.41 KB)







Psychological or sexual harassment: employee’s version of events


This form is for employees who wish to file a complaint for psychological or sexual harassment. It must be completed and submitted to the CNESST when the complaint is filed.





Download file (pdf | 384.41 KB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 6.23 MB)







Retrospective Adjustment of the 2024  Assessment - Employer's Guide


This guide is a reference tool intended for the employer. It contains useful information for understanding the retrospective ratemaking. It presents the conditions for qualification for retrospective ratemaking and the cost calculation methods.





Download file (pdf | 6.23 MB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 951.44 KB)







Calculation of Personalized Rate 2024 – Employer’s Guide


This guide is intended to facilitate the understanding of the personalized rate calculation method and to respond to questions that the employer could have on that subject. The presentation is made up of two main parts: determining the compensation cost and the personalized rate calculation.





Download file (pdf | 951.44 KB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 4.64 MB)







2024 Schedule of Rates


This publication contains explanations about the classification of employers and occupational health and safety rates. It also includes a numerical list of the classification units and the descriptions of each unit.





Download file (pdf | 4.64 MB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 1.22 MB)







Compiling documents to confirm the breakdown of annual insurable wages for 2024


Employers whose activities are classified under more than one classification unit must annually prepare one or more documents, depending on the circumstances, before submitting their Statement of wages. This document contains examples of the various documents that could be prepared according to the type of employer.





Download file (pdf | 1.22 MB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 1.86 MB)







Alternative Assessment Procedure for Interjurisdictional Transport


This document is intented for employers and persons who have personal coverage who work in interjurisdictional transport. They will find general information on the statement of wages method that applies to this sector and on the specific rate structure offered to interprovincial transport enterprises.





Download file (pdf | 1.86 MB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 4.95 MB)







2024 Retrospective Adjustment of the Assessment - Guide for Employers Forming a Group


This guide is a reference tool intended for employers forming a group or wishing to form a group. It presents the conditions for qualification for retrospective ratemaking, the rules regarding an application to form a group and renewal of the application, the requirements to meet and the measures taken in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy.





Download file (pdf | 4.95 MB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 250.24 KB)







Sample Resolutions - Employers Forming a Group


These sample resolutions provide information about the essential content of an application to form a single group.
Designation of Signatory of the Forms Entitled Application to Form a Single Group – Designation of Employer (Choice of Limit) – Employer’s Authorization (Contact Person for Retrospective Ratemaking Matters) and Security for a Group of Employers
This resolution is used to submit an application to form a group and to designate the signatory of the forms entitled Application to Form a Single Group – Designation of Employer (Choice of Limit) – Employer’s Authorization (Contact Person for Retrospective Ratemaking Matters) and Security for a Group of Employers.
Resolution Authorizing the Filing of an Application to Form a Single Group (Where the Parent Company Is Not an Employer) 
With this resolution, a parent company that is not an employer within the meaning of the Act respecting industrial accidents and occupational diseases authorizes the filing of an application to form a single group. 
Resolution Attesting to the Composition of the Group and to the Control Exercised by the Parent Company Over Its Subsidiaries
With this resolution, the parent company attests to the composition of the group and to the control exercised by the parent company over its subsidiaries.
Resolution Designating the Signatory of the Form Entitled Confirmation of the Choice of Limit per Claim – Group of Employers
With this resolution, the employers making up the group designate the signatory authorized to notify the CNESST of their choice of limit per claim.





Download file (pdf | 250.24 KB)















Télécharger le fichier (pdf | 91.54 KB)







Application for Exemption - Employer


This form is intended for employers that meet the basic test conditions but that do not wish to be subject to retrospective ratemaking.





Download file (pdf | 91.54 KB)















100 Results




0 items






Search


 Apply
Reset


Filter
 
        Language
    



English




Spanish




French




Arabic




Mandarin



 
        Type
    



Information document




Form




Guide and template




Magazine




Politique




Protocole – PMSD



 
        Customer base
    



Employers




Teachers




Providers




Young people




Parents




Partners




Workers



 
        Theme
    

CNESST/Administration Pay equity Invoicing Labour standards Reporting and planning OHS Work environment / Activity sectors Tree felling Agriculture Arts Construction Education Excavation and trenching Forestry Mining and quarrying Transportation Life event Work accident Assault Bankruptcy Fire Occupational disease Maternity Return to work Obligations and compliance Employer compliance Contribution Statement of wages Compensation Pricing Prevention Maintenance and upkeep of premises Ergonomics Inspection Organization of prevention Management Prevention program Personal coverage First aid Risks Noise Falls Thermal stress Electricity Explosion Machine Handling Hazardous product Air quality Biological hazard Working at heights Care and health Medical assistance Health care professional Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs)







Pagination



Show previous page
«
Previous





              Current page
            1




              Display page 2
            2




              Display page 3
            3

…


Display the last page
10




Show next page
Next
»