Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


A gradual return to work is a way to promote the worker's reintegration into their workplace. A gradual return may be proposed once the employment injury has healed or stabilized, when the CNESST renders a decision on ability to work. 
Before proposing a gradual return to work, the CNESST ensures that the period of absence or the worker's situation warrants it.
Financial support for a maximum period of 8 weeks may be offered to the employer when a gradual return is put in place in their establishment.
Gradual return to work start date 
A gradual return begins as soon as the decision on ability to work is rendered, unless there are special circumstances. When the worker is eligible for a gradual return, the CNESST prepares the implementation of the measure in collaboration with the worker and the employer. 
Financial support
Financial support begins on the first day of the gradual return to work. The payment is made according to the terms of the financial option chosen by the employer. The terms of payment (in French only) are the same as for a temporary assignment. 
Recourse 
The worker and the employer may contest a CNESST decision.
A worker who is not reinstated in their job or who believes that they have been discriminated against because of their employment injury may file an occupational health and safety complaint with the CNESST or use the grievance procedure provided for in their collective agreement.
 



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work
Active page


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank