Hazard control


Once the hazards have been corrected, the employer, in collaboration with the workers, must ensure that they remain under permanent control. This is the step of the prevention process that is most often neglected, resulting in repeated work accidents in companies.
To avoid going back to square one, it is important that preventive measures remain in place and remain effective.
How to proceed
To control hazards effectively, the employer must:
identify and describe a minimum of 2 appropriate controls for each preventive measure chosen
include these controls in the template or prevention program, indicating:
	the controls in place or to be implemented
the target completion date or frequency
the people responsible

Controls
The employer must ask the following questions:
How do I verify that what I have done, stays done (inspection, maintenance, training reminders, etc.)?
How can we avoid introducing new hazards when implementing corrective measures (purchasing policy, training of new employees, etc.)?
The following is a list of controls that can be put in place:
preventive maintenance
training, refresher training
information
inspection
purchasing policy
engineering policy
outsourcing policy
supervision
workplace quality monitoring
worker health monitoring
It is recommended that evidence or documentation be kept at all stages of the prevention process. For example, photos taken before and after the corrective and control measures are implemented.



        See also      


Passer à l'action






        Forms and publications      


Outil d'identification des risques (Document d’information)



Guide de prévention en milieu de travail à l'intention de la petite et moyenne entreprise, 2e édition (Guide et modèle)



Aide-mémoire sur la permanence des correctifs dans vos établissements scolaires (Guide et modèle)



Démarche PAIR - Modèle de grille - Planification, résultats et projections (Guide et modèle)








Secondary menu


 Organizing prevention
 Active page


How to manage occupational health and safety in your company


Winning conditions in occupational health and safety


Training clips to support you in your OHS management













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank