How to manage occupational health and safety in your company


Taking charge of occupational health and safety means managing health and safety to make workplaces safe for workers. Occupational health and safety management is essential because, among other things, it makes it possible to eliminate the hazards that cause work accidents and occupational diseases while promoting worker participation.
How is your company doing in terms of management?
In order to know where your company stands today in terms of occupational health and safety management, it is essential to get a clear picture of the current situation.
The CNESST provides a diagnostic tool that you can use to take stock of the situation in your workplace based on the 5 winning conditions. You can then use this tool to do an annual diagnosis, track your progress, set new goals based on the results and share them with your staff.
ImportantThe diagnostic tool is not suitable for construction sites.
In order to make an optimal diagnosis, it is important that the employer, the workers, their representatives or the health and safety committee work together in this process.
This allows workers to participate in the search for appropriate solutions and to fully adhere to safe work methods in addition to being made more aware of health and safety in their workplace.
You can use this picture of the situation in your workplace as a starting point for establishing a prevention program.
Benefits of occupational health and safety management
In addition to promoting the health and safety of workers, taking charge of occupational health and safety brings many benefits, such as
improving:
	the company’s productivity
product quality

disseminating a positive brand image
reducing:
	absenteeism
costs
the employer's premium rate

mobilizing workers



        See also      


Outil interactif de diagnostic de la prise en charge de la santé et la sécurité du travail



Outil interactif de diagnostic de la prise en charge de la santé et la sécurité du travail pour les établissements d’enseignement






        Forms and publications      


Outil de diagnostic - Prise en charge de la santé et la sécurité du travail pour les établissements (Document d’information)








Secondary menu


 Organizing prevention
 Active page


How to manage occupational health and safety in your company


Winning conditions in occupational health and safety


Training clips to support you in your OHS management













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank