I am expecting a child 


The birth of a child is a happy time in life. This moment can also lead you to ask yourself a lot of questions.















            When you find out you are pregnant
          



Pay particular attention to the tasks you perform at work
Do you know about the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program? 
What do I have to do if I want to apply for the program?
What does my employer have to do if I apply for the program (in French only)?
What are my doctor's role and responsibilities (in French only)?
What recourses are available to me if I am not eligible for the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program?



 


            During your pregnancy
          



Use all the means available to you to ensure you have a healthy pregnancy
What happens if my doctor thinks that my work is dangerous for me or my child
	Preventive withdrawal
Reassignment 

Can I be absent from work for pregnancy follow-up examinations?
Can I be absent from work if there is a complication during my pregnancy?
	Special maternity leave
Five-day leave
Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy




 


            After your child is born
          



Take time to take care of yourself and your child
What leave is provided for to take care of a child and recover from childbirth?
	Maternity leave
Paternity leave 
Five-day leave 
Parental leave 




 


            Prepare your return to work
          



Inform your employer about your return to work
Will I return to my regular position after maternity, paternity or parental leave?
	Maternity leave
Paternity leave
Parental leave

What happens if I am still breastfeeding and I think that there is a risk for me or my child when I am at work?
What happens if I have to stay home to take care of my child because they are sick?











  Recourses



Ask for an administrative review
Ask for a reconsideration of a decision
Contesting a reassignment
Complaint concerning a prohibited practice





  Specific event



Death of a child