I had an accident or illness at work


Have you been injured while carrying out your tasks or have you developed an occupational disease at work? We can answer your questions to help you recover and return to work safely.















            Start the procedure right away 
          



What you need to do after your accident or occupational disease
What should I do after a work accident?
What should I do if I have an occupational disease?
Once I have filed my Worker’s claim form, what happens next?
Am I eligible for compensation or reimbursements?
What happens if I have a work accident outside Québec?



 


            Get financial assistance during your recovery
          



You may be entitled to the following during your recovery
Am I entitled to a wage even if I am unable to work?
What are the reimbursements I might be entitled to?
	Reimbursement for damaged clothing
Reimbursement for the repair or replacement of a prosthetic or orthotic device
Reimbursement for medical aid
Reimbursement of travel and accommodation expenses
Reimbursement of the cost of routine home maintenance work
Personal home assistance allowance




 


            Follow your doctor’s recommendations when you return to work
          



Learn more
Can I go back to work even if I am unable to perform my usual tasks?
Can I return to my regular position as soon as I am able to perform the routine tasks associated with my job?
Am I entitled to assistance to return to the labour market?
What should I do if my injury or illness comes back?



 


            Learn more about complaints and recourses
          



Exercise your rights
Can I contest a CNESST decision regarding a work accident claim?
My employer took reprisals against me after a work accident – what recourses are available to me?
I am not satisfied with the CNESST’s services – what can I do?













Worker’s Claim


The Worker’s Claim allows you to apply for indemnities following a work accident or an occupational disease. You can fill out the Worker’s Claim on Mon Espace CNESST (In French only).
Fill out the Worker’s claim online (In French only)