In the event of a work accident during the training period


The training site and the educational institution are obliged to take the necessary measures to protect the health and ensure the safety and physical and psychological well-being of trainees. Trainees are protected during their training period in the event of a work accident or occupational disease, under certain conditions.
When a work accident occurs during the training period, the different stakeholders all have a role to play:
Trainee
Notify their supervisor of any accident or near incident
Sign the Register of Accidents, Incidents and First Aid
Educational institution
Conduct inspections in the training site to ensure that corrective measures have been put in place after the accident 
Training site
Provide first aid (in French only)
Investigate the accident or incident
Implement corrective measures and controls to prevent the accident or incident from happening again





Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees
Active page


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank