Job search support services


The CNESST must facilitate the occupational reintegration of a worker who has suffered a work injury. It must provide job search support services to a worker who:
becomes able to do their job once again, but who is not reinstated in their job or an equivalent job by their employer after the period for exercising their right to return to work has expired 
is unable to do their job because of their injury, but who is capable of doing a suitable job
The CNESST may offer job search support services before it renders a decision on the worker’s ability to work.
The aim of job search support services is to help the worker re-enter the workforce in a job similar to the one they held before the injury, or to find an established suitable job. These services are put in place after the CNESST renders a decision on the worker’s ability to work. 
The worker concerned is entitled to an income replacement indemnity for up to 1 year while they are looking for a job. During this period, they are obliged to take advantage of the CNESST’s job search support services. If they do not take advantage of the services without a valid reason, payment of their income replacement indemnity may be reduced or suspended. Services offered by the CNESST may also be suspended or terminated.
Description of services offered by the CNESST
Support services
During the job search process, the CNESST supports the worker by:
helping them identify their needs
referring them to an appropriate resource
making sure that the job search services meet their needs
providing additional assistance as needed 
Job search services
Job search services can take many forms:
assitance drafting a CV
information about the labour market
information about job search and interview methods, strategies and techniques
External job search resources
If the CNESST is unable to offer these services itself, it can refer workers to authorized job search resources in the private or public sector at no cost to the worker. The CNESST draws up a service contract with the chosen resource and pays all fees. 
Resource persons who wish to become an authorized supplier must fill out the Inscription d’un fournisseur de services de santé et sécurité du travail form (in French only).
End of support services 
The CNESST’s offer of job search support services ends when:
the worker’s needs have been met
the worker finds a job
the 1-year income replacement indemnity for job search purposes comes to an end
	However, services offered during the 1-year income replacement indemnity period may continue after the income replacement indemnity expires.  
		 




        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work
Active page


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank