Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


If you have had a termination of pregnancy, such as a miscarriage or an abortion, you have the right to be absent from work to recover.
During an absence following a termination of pregnancy, your employment relationship is protected.
Before 20 weeks of pregnancy
If a termination of pregnancy occurs before the beginning of the 20th week of pregnancy, the person has the right to be absent for up to 3 weeks, without pay.
The absence may be extended only if justified by a medical certificate.
After 20 weeks of pregnancy
If a termination of pregnancy occurs as of the first day of the 20th week of pregnancy, the person is entitled to maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth for a maximum of 20 weeks without pay.
They are also entitled to benefits under the Régime québécois d’assurance parentale (RQAP).

Note
In all cases, the length of leave remains the same if the person was expecting twins. It is not multiplied by 2.

Notice to the employer
The person must inform their employer in writing of their situation as soon as possible. The written notice must indicate the date they expect to return to work and be accompanied by a medical certificate.
Five days of leave
Both parents may also be entitled to 5 days of leave. This leave must be taken in the 15 days following the termination of pregnancy. If a parent is already on maternity leave or on leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth, they are not entitled to 5 days of leave.
The employer must be notified as soon as possible.
Examples
Termination of pregnancy before the beginning of the 20th week

Stéphanie is 15 weeks pregnant when her pregnancy is terminated. Therefore, she has the right to be absent for up to 3 weeks, without pay. The leave may be longer if justified by her medical certificate.

Termination of pregnancy as of the 20th week

Chloé is 24 weeks pregnant when she gives birth prematurely to a stillborn baby. Therefore, she is entitled to maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth as well as 5 days of leave.
Her partner, Alain, may be absent from work for 5 days. The first 2 days of this leave must be paid by the employer, regardless of the length of uninterrupted service.

 



        Forms and publications      


Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave


Adoption or birth


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations
Active page


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank