Leave for reservists


A reservist of the Canadian Armed Forces may be absent from civilian work, without pay, to conduct operations in Canada or abroad. During their absence, their employment relationship is protected.
Eligible operations
Abroad
After 12 months of uninterrupted service with their employer, reservists may be absent from work to take part in a Canadian Armed Forces operation abroad for a period of up to 18 months. An operation abroad includes:
preparation
training
rest
travel from their place of residence and back
In Canada
A reservist may be absent from work to take part in a Canadian Armed Forces operation in Canada in order to:
provide assistance in the event of a major disaster within the meaning of the Loi sur la sécurité civile
assist the civil authority at the request of the Attorney General of Québec pursuant to the National Defence Act
intervene in any other emergency situation designated by the Government
In Canada or abroad
A reservist may be absent from work to take part in any other Canadian Armed Forces operation under the circumstances, the conditions and for the period prescribed by regulation.
Annual training
A reservist may be absent from work to take part in annual training with the Canadian Armed Forces for a period of up to 15 days (or any other period prescribed by regulation).
Exceptions
A reservist does not have the right to be absent from work in the following situations:
if there is a danger to the life, health or safety of other workers or the population
if there is a risk of destruction or serious deterioration of buildings or movable property, or in a case of force majeure
if their absence is contrary to their professional code of ethics
Notice to the employer
The reservist must notify their employer in writing at least 4 weeks in advance. They must indicate the date on which their absence is to begin, the reason for it and its duration. The notice period may be shorter only if there is serious cause such as an emergency situation, in which case the employer must be notified as soon as possible.
The reservist must provide a document justifying their absence if requested by their employer.
Return to work
The reservist may return to work earlier than the scheduled date. They must notify their employer in writing of the new return-to-work date at least 3 weeks in advance.
A reservist who has been absent for more than 12 weeks cannot be absent again for Canadian Army operations or training until 12 months from the date of their return to work.
When the reservist returns to work, they must be reinstated in their regular position and receive the salary and benefits they would have been entitled to had they remained at work. If their position was abolished during their absence, the person retains the same rights as if they had worked. These provisions must not give the reservist a benefit they would not have received had they remained at work.
Vacation
A Canadian Armed Forces reservist may ask their employer to defer their annual vacation if, at the end of the year in which the vacation should have been taken, they are absent to take part in:
a Canadian Armed Forces operation abroad
a Canadian Armed Forces operation in Canada
annual training
any other Canadian Armed Forces operations



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 66 à 81.20





Interpretation Guide – Section 66 to 77 










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave


Adoption or birth


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations
Active page


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank