Meal and accommodation costs


Meal and accommodation costs may be deducted from a worker’s pay if their working conditions require their employer to provide meals and accommodation or to ensure that accommodation is provided to the worker.  
At this time, the maximum amount that may be deducted is: 
$2.53 per meal, up to a maximum of $33.01 per week 
$31.74 per week for a room 
$57.11 per week for a dwelling where the room can accommodate 4 or fewer workers 
$38.10 per week for a dwelling where the room can accommodate 5 or more workers 
To deduct these amounts, the employer is not required to obtain the worker’s written authorization. 
Each worker who is provided with a room in a dwelling must have a bed and a chest of drawers as well as access to a toilet and a shower or bath.  
A worker who is provided with a dwelling that has at least one room must also have access to at least a washer and dryer as well as to a kitchen with a refrigerator, a stove and a microwave oven.  
No other accommodation costs, such as the cost of access to a living room or an additional room, may be deducted. 
Special provision for domestics
An employer may not require payment for room and board from a domestic who lives or takes their meals in the employer’s home.



        See also      


Ma paye ça compte  






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 39.1 à 51.1





Regulation respecting labour standards – Maximum amount to be paid by employees for room and meals –  Section 6










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay
Active page


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank