Mediation service


How can mediation help you?
Mediation is a free service offered by the CNESST. It helps workers and their employer reach an agreement when there is a conflict regarding:
labour standards
pay equity
occupational health and safety
accidents and occupational diseases
When a complaint is filed, the mediator contacts the parties to offer them their services. The parties are always free to accept or refuse mediation.  
During mediation, the parties may be accompanied by a person of their choice for support. They also have the right to be represented.   
All information collected by the mediator during meetings is kept confidential, including the terms of the agreement. 
Who is offered mediation?
Mediation is for: 
the worker 
the employer or their representative 
certified associations, such as unions 
worker associations 
When is mediation offered?
Mediation is offered when any of the following situations are reported to the CNESST: 
psychological or sexual harassment 
dismissal not made for good and sufficient cause 
differences in treatment solely based on the hiring date concerning pension plans or other employee benefits  
disagreement within a pay equity committee or when implementing a pay equity program 
dismissal of a worker following the exercise of a right under the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program 
prohibited practice, sanction, discriminatory measure or reprisals against a worker who, for instance: 
	is pregnant 
suffered an employment injury (work-related injury or illness) 
exercises a right or a function that is recognized by the Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST) 
 exercises a right that is recognized by the Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP) 
exercises a right or a recourse that is recognized by the Loi sur l’équité salariale 
exercises a right or a recourse that is recognized by the Loi sur les normes du travail 

What happens if mediation is refused or if an agreement cannot be reached?
If mediation is refused or if an agreement cannot be reached, other options are proposed

Nature of the complaint and solution

Nature of the complaint 
Option

Dismissal not made for good and sufficient cause or a practice that is prohibited by the Loi sur les normes du travail 

We offer the worker the option of being represented by one of our lawyers free of charge before the Tribunal administratif du travail.
Psychological or sexual harassment
The complaint is transferred to one of our psychological harassment investigators. If the findings of the investigation confirm a situation of harassment, we offer the worker the option of being represented by one of our lawyers free of charge before the Tribunal administratif du travail.
Pay equity
We conduct an investigation and render a decision. The worker and the employer have 90 days from the date of receipt of the decision to contest the decision before the Tribunal administratif du travail.
Occupational health and safety
One of our mediators/adjudicators summons the worker and the employer to a hearing. Based on the facts reported, a decision is rendered. The worker and the employer have 60 days from the date of receipt of the decision to contest the decision before the Tribunal administratif du travail.



        See also      


La médiation : un service qui favorise la résolution rapide et harmonieuse d’un conflit - Video available in French only






        Forms and publications      


Mediation - A valuable asset for resolving conflicts (Document d’information)



La médiation en santé et sécurité du travail (Document d’information)



Cadre d'intervention en médiation-décision en santé et sécurité du travail (Guide et modèle)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)





Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES)





Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation
Active page


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank