Natural caregivers


Workers may be absent from work to fulfil obligations relating to the health of a person for whom they act as a natural caregiver. During their absence, their employment relationship is protected.
To be recognized as a natural caregiver, the worker must apply to health and social services professionals to obtain a certificate.
Certificate of informal caregiver status
Various professionals in the health and social services sector can provide a certificate of natural caregiver status, including:
an occupational therapist
a nurse
a physician
a speech therapist
a physiotherapist
a psychologist
a psychoeducator
a midwife
a marriage and family therapist
a physical rehabilitation therapist
a social worker
These professionals can use the CNESST form “Attestation d’une personne agissant à titre de proche aidant”(in French only).
Short-term absence
A worker who is a natural caregiver is entitled to 10 days of leave for family or parental obligations. The absence must be related to the health of the person for whom they act as a natural caregiver.
After 3 months of uninterrupted service with their employer, a worker who must be absent from work as a natural caregiver could be entitled to 2 days of absence with pay if these days have not been used for another reason during the year.
Extended absence
A person who acts as a natural caregiver may be absent from work, without pay, regardless of the length of uninterrupted service, for a maximum of:
16 weeks over a 12-month period if the person for whom they act as a natural caregiver has a serious accident or serious illness
27 weeks over a 12-month period if the person for whom they act as a natural caregiver has a serious and potentially fatal illness, as attested by a medical certificate
36 weeks if the person who has a serious and potentially fatal illness is a minor child
Notice to the employer
If the worker plans to be absent for a short period, they must notify their employer and make reasonable efforts to limit the length of their absence. Under certain circumstances, the employer may ask them to provide a document attesting to the reasons for their absence and the length of the absence.
In the event of a serious accident or illness of a relative, the employer must be notified as soon as possible of the absence and the reasons for it.
A medical certificate must attest to the serious and potentially fatal illness.



        Forms and publications      


Attestation d'une personne agissant à titre de proche aidant (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank