Non–work-related accident or illness


The employment relationship is protected for workers who are absent from work owing to a non–work related accident or illness. An employer may not impose sanctions because the person was absent.

Note
In the event of a work–related accident or occupational disease, other provisions apply. They must inform their employer of their absence as soon as possible.

Days of absence with pay
If the worker is credited with 3 months or more of uninterrupted service with their employer, the first 2 days of absence are with pay if they are absent for any of the following reasons:
non–work related accident or illness
family obligations relating to the care, health or education of their child or their spouse’s child 
family obligations as an informal caregiver for a family member or another person owing to their state of health 
organ or tissue donation 
domestic violence or sexual abuse or a criminal offence 
They are entitled to a total of 2 days of absence with pay per calendar year (January 1 to December 31). These days of absence may not be deferred from one year to the next or replaced with an indemnity.
The division of days of absence with pay owing to illness or an accident is not provided for in the Act. If the worker is absent for only part of the day owing to illness or for another health related reason, they must take leave without pay. They are, however, still entitled to their full days of absence with pay.
However, if authorized by the employer, these days may be divided. In this case, the pay must be calculated based on the number of hours of absence.
How to calculate the pay for days of absence with pay
Whether the worker is full time or part time or paid by commission, days of absence with pay are calculated in the same way as the statutory holiday indemnity.
Do not hesitate to use monCalcul to estimate the amount.
Examples of how to calculate the indemnity
Fannie has a regular schedule

Fannie was absent from work owing to illness for 3 days. She works 40 hours a week, 8 hours a day, and earns $20 an hour.
Fannie is entitled to 2 days of absence with pay per year for health reasons. If she has not already used these 2 days of absence, her employer must pay 2 of the days she was absent.
Calculation of the wages earned during the 4 weeks of pay preceding the absence:
	160 h (40+40+40+40) x $20 = $3,200
Calculation of the amount to be paid for one day of absence
	$3,200 ÷ 20 = $160
The employer will have to pay Fannie $320 ($160 + $160) for her 2 days of absence.

Mouhamed has a regular schedule and is paid by commission

Mouhamed was absent from work owing to illness for 4 days. He works 35 hours a week and earns $18 an hour. He also receives commissions on his sales.
He received $1,500 in commission during the 12 complete weeks of pay preceding the week of his absence.
Calculation of the wages earned during the 12 weeks of pay preceding the absence:
	420 h (35 hours per week x 12 weeks) x $18 =$7,560
	$7,560 + $1,500 (commissions earned) = $9,060
Calculation of the amount to be paid for one day of absence
	$9,060 ÷ 60 = $151
The employer will have to pay Mouhamed $302 ($151 + $151) for his 2 days of absence.

Length of absence that is protected
A worker may be absent for an extended period owing to an accident or an illness. They may be absent for 26 weeks without pay over a 12 month period if they are ill or had an accident that is not related to their work and means that they are unable to work.
If warranted by the circumstances, the employer may ask them to provide an official document attesting to the reasons for the absence and the length of the absence.



        See also      


 monCalcul







        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave


Adoption or birth


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses
Active page


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank