Occupational rehabilitation


Workers who have a work accident or contract an occupational disease can access rehabilitation measures and services if they need them. These measures support the person's return to work and can be put in place as soon as the CNESST accepts an employment injury claim. 
Rehabilitation measures and the personal rehabilitation plan 
Prior to healing or stabilization of the employment injury
The CNESST may grant rehabilitation measures that are appropriate for the worker's state of health with a view to their vocational or social reintegration. 
After healing or stabilization of the injury
When the worker is entitled to rehabilitation, the CNESST prepares and implements a personal rehabilitation plan. 
This is done in collaboration with the worker and the employer, when the employer's participation is required. The plan may include a physical, social and vocational rehabilitation program. Each type of rehabilitation program has very specific objectives depending on the needs identified. 
The personal rehabilitation plan may be modified to take new circumstances into account. 
Objectives of each type of rehabilitation program
Rehabilitation program
Objectives for the worker
Physical

Eliminate or alleviate the physical disability 
Allow them to develop their abilities in order to reduce the impact of the functional limitations resulting from their employment injury  

Vocational

Facilitate their return to their job or an equivalent job
Enable them to access a suitable job with the same employer or elsewhere in the labour market 

Social

Overcome the personal and social consequences of their employment injury as best they can 
Adjust to their new situation
Regain their autonomy in carrying out the daily activities they did before their injury 

Participation in the rehabilitation measure or the personal rehabilitation plan 
When a worker fails or refuses to participate in a rehabilitation measure or a personal rehabilitation plan without a valid reason, the CNESST may:
suspend or terminate the measure or the personal rehabilitation plan
reduce or suspend payment of the income replacement indemnity
The CNESST may also issue an administrative monetary penalty to an employer who refuses to cooperate with the measures carried out in their establishment, unless they demonstrate that the measure imposes undue hardship (in French only) on them.
The CNESST may offer a worker who has suffered an employment injury job search support services.



        See also      


 Recueil des politiques en matière d'indemnisation et de réadaptation







        Forms and publications      


En cas d’accident ou de maladie du travail… voici ce qu’il faut savoir! (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work
Active page


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank