Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child 


Upon the adoption or birth of a child, including a child born through surrogacy (surrogate mother), a leave of 5 continuous weeks without pay is provided.
During the leave, the employment relationship is protected and benefits under the Régime québécois d'assurance parentale (RQAP) may be granted.
If the person continues to contribute to the various group insurance and pension plans during their leave, the employer must do likewise.
After their leave, the person may be entitled to parental leave.
Beginning and end of leave
The leave may begin as of the week of the child’s birth and end no later than 78 weeks after the child’s birth.
Adoption and surrogacy

In the case of surrogacy or adoption, the leave may begin as of the week in which the child is entrusted to the person and end 78 weeks later.
During an adoption procedure, the leave may begin the week the person leaves work to travel outside Quebec for the child to be entrusted to them and end 78 weeks after the week the child was entrusted to them.

At the worker’s request, the leave may be suspended, divided or extended if their health or their child’s health requires it. In other situations, at the worker’s request and if the employer agrees, the leave may be divided into weeks.
This leave may not be transferred to or shared with the mother. In the context of an adoption or surrogacy, either or both parents are entitled to it.
Informing the employer
The person must give their employer written notice stating the date the leave will begin and the date they expect to return to work. The notice must be given to their employer at least 3 weeks before they go on leave. This period may be shorter if the birth of the child or the time when the child is entrusted to them occurs before the expected date of delivery.
Return to work
When the person returns to work, the employer must reinstate them in their regular position and give them the wages and benefits they would have been entitled to had they remained at work.
They may choose to return to work before the date stated in the written notice. They must give their employer new notice, in writing, at least 3 weeks before the date of their return.
If their position was abolished while they were on leave, they also retain the same rights and privileges they would have been entitled to had they remained at work.
If they do not return to work on the scheduled date, their employer may consider them to have resigned. It is preferable for the employer to try to contact the person before the end of their leave to confirm their return date.



        See also      


Régime québécois d’assurance parentale (RQAP)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave
Active page


Adoption or birth
Active page


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank