Pay equity training sessions


The CNESST offers several free pay equity training sessions. They are designed for people who want to learn more about the subject and the application of the Loi sur l’équité salariale.
Training session objectives
Develop a better understanding of pay equity
Learn about employers’ obligations (in French only)
Understand the process for completing an initial pay equity exercise or a pay equity audit (in French only)
Learn about the vocabulary, concepts and tools used in pay equity
Learn how to use the pay equity and pay audit software package (in French only)
Training sessions online (in French only)
Objective: Pay equity (online training) 
Pay equity audit (webinar ) 
The employer's pay equity report (webinar )
Pay equity rights and recourses (webinar )
How to use the pay equity and pay audit software package (webinar )
We also offer training sessions in some professional, technical or university programs. These training sessions last 50 minutes or 3 hours. To plan one, contact us. 
You can also take a group training session tailored to your situation. Talk to your union or employers' association or professional order.



        See also      


Égalité salariale vs équité salariale - vidéo



Le concept d'équité salariale - vidéo



Prédominance sexuelle des catégories d'emplois - vidéo






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES)










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage
Active page


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank