Pay slip


At each pay, an employer must give workers a statement of earnings, commonly referred to as a pay slip.
The pay slip allows the worker to verify the calculation of their wages and deductions. It must include all the relevant information, such as: 
the employer’s name 
the worker’s name  
the job title 
the work period the payment is for 
the date of the payment 
the number of hours paid at the regular rate 
the number of hours of overtime paid or replaced by leave, with the applicable rate 
the nature and amount of the bonuses, indemnities, allowances or commissions paid 
the wage rate 
the amount of gross wages 
the nature and amount of the deductions made 
the amount of net wages paid to the worker  
the amount of tips reported by the worker or attributed to them by the employer 
We have developed a tool that you can use to create a sample pay slip. After you complete a questionnaire, you will be given a personalized pay slip.



        See also      


Service en ligne Bulletin de paye



Ma paye ça compte  



 monCalcul







        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 39.1 à 51.1





Interpretation Guide – Section 39.1 to 51.1










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay
Active page


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank