Personnel placement agency workers


Agency workers are hired by a personnel placement agency to meet labour needs in a company that is a client of the agency.
If you are an agency worker, you have the same rights and obligations (in French only) as all Québec workers with respect to the Loi sur les normes du travail and the Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail. The personnel placement agency that hires you and the client company you are working for must respect them.
The agency must have a licence
A personnel placement agency must have a valid licence issued by the CNESST to carry on its activities in Québec. You can check if an agency is on the list of licenced agencies (in French only).
The agency's obligations
The personnel placement agency must comply with all the working conditions provided for in the legislation enforced by the CNESST.
Wage disparity is prohibited
An agency cannot offer you a lower hourly rate than that granted to workers in the client company who perform the same tasks in the same establishment solely because of your agency worker status. For example, because you are paid by an agency or because you usually work fewer hours per week.
Restrictions on hiring
Six months after you are assigned, the client company may hire you. The personnel placement agency cannot prevent it from doing so.
Documents provided
When you are assigned, the agency must provide you with the following documents:
a document that describes your working conditions and indicates the name and contact information of the client company
the leaflet What you need to know about employment, provided by the CNESST, which explains workers’ rights and employers’s obligations with respect to work
Fees associated with your assignment
A personnel placement agency may not charge you fees associated with your assignment to a client company, such as fees for training or for providing assistance with hiring, such as assistance with writing your curriculum vitae (CV).
 



        Forms and publications      


Travailleur et employeur - Ce que vous devez savoir en matière de travail (Document d’information)



What you need to know about employment (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Règlement sur les agences de placement de personnel et sur les agences de recrutement de travailleurs étrangers temporaires





Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)





Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES)





Interpretation Guide – Section 92.5 to 92.12





Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)










Secondary menu


 Categories of workers
 Active page


Farm workers


Personnel placement agency workers


Self-employed workers


Clothing industry workers


Temporary foreign workers


Seasonal workers


Workers who are not covered













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank