Personal caregivers


Personal caregivers are paid because to whose specific responsibility it is to taking care of or providing care to a child or to a sick, disabled or elderly person in the person’s home.
In the course of their work, personal caregiver may be called upon to perform domestic duties that are directly related to the needs of the person in their care, such as meal preparation or care of clothing.
Personal caregivers are considered domestic workers within the meaning of the Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles. Under certain conditions, they may be protected in the case of a work accident or occupational disease.
Working conditions
Personal caregivers are entitled to the same working conditions provided for under the Loi sur les normes du travail as all workers. For example, the personal caregiver must receive a wage equal to or higher than the minimum wage.
The only difference is the standard work week. The personal caregiver’s employer does not have to apply the rules on overtime worked after 40 hours of work.
Complaints and recourses
Personal caregivers may file a complaint with the CNESST if they believe that their workplace rights have not been respected.
In the event of a complaint concerning dismissal without just and sufficient cause, if the case goes to the Tribunal administratif du travail, the latter may not order the reinstatement of a personal caregiver with their employer. It may only order the payment to the personal caregiver of compensation corresponding to the wages and other benefits they did not receive as a result of the dismissal.
Personal caregiver on an occasional basis or in the context of family or community assistance
Personal caregivers are excluded from the application of the Loi sur les normes du travail if:
they perform their work on an occasional basis (for example, a couple that hires a babysitter for their child so that they can go out)
the work is performed in the context of a family assistance relationship
the work is performed in the context of a community assistance relationship



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 54





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 158.3





Interpretation Guide - Section 3





Interpretation Guide – Section 54





Interpretation Guide – Section 123.4





Interpretation Guide – Section 128





Interpretation Guide – Section 158.3










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank