Personal protective equipment


Personal protective equipment (PPE) protects workers by controlling their exposure to certain risks as much as possible. For example, this can include protective clothing, respirators, safety hats, gloves, earmuffs or safety boots.
Personal protective equipment (PPE) must be used as a last resort when the hazard cannot be eliminated or reduced by other means. Means are identified in the company's prevention program.
The employer has several options for providing personal protective equipment free of charge. For example:
provide an amount equivalent to the actual cost of personal protective equipment for the work required
have a service contract in the company’s name with a supplier
have an in-house store or bank of personal protective equipment
make the equipment available to the worker and require that the equipment remain in the workplace

Example
Steve has a job interview for a materials handler position in a warehouse. His employer asks him if he already has safety boots so that he can be hired immediately, otherwise he will not be hired.
Owning personal protective equipment cannot be a hiring criterion. The employer cannot require Steve to own safety boots before he starts work. The employer must provide them free of charge so that Steve can start work.
The employer must find a way to ensure that this personal protective equipment is:
provided free of charge for the worker they want to hire
available as soon as the worker is required to perform tasks for which they need the equipment

Requirements in certain fields
Certain types of work may have requirements for personal protective equipment. For example, this is the case for workers and employers who:
are exposed to solid particles containing hazardous materials (in French only) or to beryllium dust or fumes (in French only)
are qualified to work in the presence of electrical voltage (in French only)
are using:
	brushing (in French only)
abrasive blast cleaning (in French only)
pruning (in French only)
electrostatic powder coating (in French only)
welding or related techniques (in French only)

The worker’s obligations
The worker must wear, use and maintain the protective equipment provided by the employer properly and take the necessary measures to protect their health and ensure their safety and that of other people.
If the worker finds that their personal protective equipment is damaged, broken or defective, they must report it to their employer or to the person responsible for inspecting the equipment.
The employer’s obligations
The employer must:
provide the personal protective equipment workers need to perform their work free of charge
ensure that workers have received training on the safe use of personal protective equipment
ensure that workers use and wear these protective means and equipment to carry out their work
ensure that personal protective equipment is kept in good condition
Health and safety committee
If there is a health and safety committee, it selects the types and models of protective clothing that is appropriate for the work while also complying with the following regulations:
Code de sécurité pour les travaux de construction (section 2.10.11)
Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (section 51)
Règlement sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (section 345)
The choice of a personal protective equipment model is not final. The chosen model may be replaced if it is not suitable.
Maintenance and storage
Personal protective equipment must be used, maintained and stored in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and the protective equipment user manual.
To optimize the protection and service life of personal protective equipment, it must be thoroughly cleaned, inspected, repaired and taken out of service when required.
The employer may designate one or more people to be responsible for the maintenance, inspection, repair, testing and disposal of personal protective equipment.
The employer must ensure that these people have the appropriate information and training to maintain the equipment and materials in good condition. They must also train their workers.



        See also      


Conception d'un programme d'ÉPI efficace 






        Forms and publications      


Débroussaillage (Document d’information)



Fiche de suivi en abattage manuel (Guide et modèle)



Prévenir et contrôler l’exposition au béryllium – Grille d’autoévaluation (Guide et modèle)



Les vêtements de protection contre les particules solides - Guide à l'intention des employeurs et des travailleurs (Document d’information)



Le décapage au jet d'abrasif : Équipement de protection individuelle (Document d’information)



S'habiller pour se protéger : travaux de soudage et de techniques connexes - Brochure destinée aux travailleurs et aux employeurs (Document d’information)



Travaux d'élagage des arbres près d’une ligne électrique sous tension (Document d’information)



Procédé de poudrage électrostatique (Document d’information)



Les vêtements de protection appropriés aux travaux de soudage et de techniques connexes (Document d’information)



Travaux sous tension : Gants isolants pour se protéger contre les chocs électriques (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Code de sécurité pour les travaux de construction (CSTC) – Article 2.10.11





Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST) – Article 51





Règlement sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (RSST) – Article 345










Secondary menu


 Organizing prevention
 Active page


How to manage occupational health and safety in your company


Winning conditions in occupational health and safety


Training clips to support you in your OHS management













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank