Preparing for mediation


It is important to prepare yourself well before mediation. To do this, it is recommended that each participant: 
determine their expectations 
identify potential solutions to resolve the situation 
formulate specific requests 
prepare a memory aid that summarizes the events 
The parties may be accompanied by a person of their choice for support. 
During mediation, both parties will be given the opportunity to express their point of view, explore potential solutions and negotiate the terms of a voluntary agreement. The mediator is there to create an atmosphere that is conducive to respectful and constructive communication. 
To get an idea of what to expect during a mediation session, watch the video La médiation: un service qui favorise la résolution rapide et harmonieuse d’un conflit [Mediation: a service for resolving conflicts quickly and smoothly; in French only] produced by the CNESST. 



        See also      


Un service qui favorise la résolution rapide et harmonieuse d’un conflit (Video available in French only)






        Forms and publications      


Mediation - A valuable asset for resolving conflicts (Document d’information)



La médiation en santé et sécurité du travail (Document d’information)



Cadre d'intervention en médiation-décision en santé et sécurité du travail (Guide et modèle)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)





Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation
Active page


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank