Presence at work, breaks and weekly rest period


Presence at work
Workers must be paid for time worked.
A worker is considered to be at work and must be paid: 
when they are available at their place of employment and are waiting for work to be assigned 
during breaks granted by their employer 
during travel that is required by their employer 
during any trial or training period that is required by their employer
An employer must pay a worker if they ask them to arrive 10 or 15 minutes before their shift or to leave 10 to 15 minutes after their shift.
An employer must also reimburse a worker for any reasonable expenses incurred when, at the employer’s request, the worker must travel or undergo training. 
Breaks
An employer is under no obligation to offer breaks but when a break is granted, it must be paid and be included in the calculation of the hours worked.
Meals
After 5 consecutive hours of work, a worker is entitled to a 30-minute meal break, without pay. If the worker is required to remain at their workstation during this time, their meal break must be paid.
Weekly rest period
A worker is entitled to a rest period of at least 32 consecutive hours each week. In the case of a farm worker, the rest period may be postponed to the following week if they agree to this.
Minimum indemnity of 3 hours for reporting for work
A person who reports for work in accordance with their usual schedule or at the express request of their employer but who, in the end, works fewer than 3 hours or does not work at all must be paid for 3 hours at their usual wage. This amount must include the tips they would have earned during this time. If the calculation of overtime for the hours worked entitles the worker to a higher amount than the indemnity for reporting for work, they must be paid this amount.
This rule does not apply in cases of force majeure, such as a fire, or when the worker is hired for periods of less than 3 hours, such as school bus drivers, school crossing guards, school monitors or some ushers.
Information meetings
When a worker has to report to work outside their normal working hours or on a day off to be given information and instructions, including during an information meeting, this must be considered as time worked.
If the meeting schedule is known, the worker is paid for the time scheduled for the meeting. If the employer asks an employee to attend a meeting on a non-working day and the meeting schedule is not known, the employer may have to pay a minimum of 3 hours, unless this type of meeting is usually held within a 3-hour period.

Example
Roberto opens a new café and asks his employees to attend an information meeting at 7 p.m. The meeting is scheduled to last 90 minutes. Roberto will have to pay his employees for the hour and a half the meeting is scheduled to last. If the meeting ends at 9 p.m., Roberto will have to pay his employees for 2 hours.
Paul, who opens a restaurant next door, also asks his employees to attend an information meeting at 7 p.m., outside normal working hours. In this company, the duration of work meetings varies widely. Therefore, Paul will have to pay his employees for 3 hours, even if the meeting lasted only one and a half hours.




        See also      


Ma paye ça compte  






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 52 à 59.0.1





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 78 et 79





Interpretation Guide – Section 52 to 59.0.1





Interpretation Guide - Section 78 to 79










Secondary menu


 Work schedule
 Active page


Standard work week


Presence at work, breaks and weekly rest period


Worker training


Right to refuse to work


Right to refuse to perform a task


Right to refuse to work overtime




Staggered work hours













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank