Preventing workplace conflict 


The employer is responsible for preventing psychological or sexual harassment in their company. The employer is obliged, for instance, to adopt a psychological or sexual harassment prevention and complaints policy and make it available and easily accessible to staff.
It is important to be aware that conflict is one of the main risk factors that can lead to psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace. Preventing conflict in the workplace helps prevent situations of harassment
Conflict occurs when there is a disagreement between people on a specific issue. Several situations can lead to conflicts between workers in a company, for example:
an interpersonal conflict
a conflict of values
differences of opinion on the organization of work
a power struggle
Intervening in a conflict
Conflict often reveals that something is not working in the workplace. Sometimes, a simple call to order can resolve the situation. More formal intervention may be required.
Depending on the situation, the employer could, for example:
meet with each person involved individually to gain a clear understanding of the situation and establish realistic expectations
meet with the people concerned together to help them find solutions and understand their respective needs and interests
encourage collaboration to find solutions

Example of a workplace conflict
Nour and Stéphane have been working on the same team for several months. Recently, Nour was appointed to lead a major IT systems modernization project. Stéphane does not agree with this decision.
His behaviour toward Nour changed and he let her know that he should have been the one to be given this responsibility. Since then, Stéphane has limited his collaboration on the project. Relations between Nour and Stéphane are tense and marked by serious communication problems. Stéphane doesn't talk to Nour at all anymore.
This situation could degenerate into harassment if no action is taken to resolve the conflict. Effective management of this conflict could lead to a clarification of the responsibilities of each person concerned and improve relations among staff.

Conflict that is poorly managed or ignored can lead to harassment. Effective conflict management helps to maintain a healthy work climate.



        See also      


Le bureau - Une situation de conflit entre deux salariés gérée par l'employeur (video - in French only)



Conflit entre une employée et son patron qui tourne à la catastrophe dans un restaurant (video - in French only)






        Forms and publications      


Comprendre et prévenir le harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail - Guide pratique de l'employeur (Guide et modèle)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 81.18





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 81.19





Interpretation Guide – Section 81.18 to 81.20










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank