Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


A worker's employment relationship is protected when they have to be absent from work for several weeks: 
for a family-related event 
owing to a non–work-related accident or illness  
for organ or tissue donation  
owing to domestic or sexual violence  
owing to a criminal offence  
to take care of a relative 
owing to an employment injury (work accident or occupational disease) 
After an absence, the employer must reinstate the worker in their former position and give them the wages and benefits they would have been entitled to had they remained at work. If their position has been abolished, the worker retains the same rights and privileges they would have been entitled to had they remained at work. 
The employer must reinstate a worker who has suffered an employment injury and who is capable of doing their job, an equivalent job or a suitable job in their company, even after the period for exercising their right to return to work has expired.
These provisions must not give the worker a benefit they would not have been entitled to had they remained at work. 
The CNESST may offer a worker who has suffered an employment injury job search support services.
If the worker continues to contribute to the various group insurance and pension plans during their absence, the employer must do likewise.
 



        Forms and publications      


Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)








Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work
Active page


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank