Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Prevent and put an end to
Workers are entitled to a healthy workplace that is free from psychological or sexual harassment. Employers have a duty to prevent harassment in their company and to take appropriate steps to put an end to it when a situation is brought to their attention.
Prevention and complaints policy
Employers are required to adopt a psychological or sexual harassment prevention and complaints policy. Staff must be informed about the policy and it must be easily accessible. For example, it can be made available online or posted in a place where all staff members can see it. Employers can use the following tools to help them create their policy:
Guide pour l’élaboration d’une politique de prévention en matière de harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail et de traitement des plaintes [Guide to developing a policy for the prevention of psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace and a procedure for complaints; French only]
Modèle de politique en matière de harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail et de traitement des plaintes [Sample of a policy for the prevention of psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace and a procedure for complaints; French only]



        Forms and publications      


Guide pour l'élaboration d'une politique de prévention du harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail et de traitement des plaintes (Guide et modèle)



Modèle de politique en matière de harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail et de traitement des plaintes (Guide et modèle)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 81.18 à 81.20





Interpretation Guide – Section 81.18 to 81.20










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace
Active page


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank