Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


What is psychological or sexual harassment? It is vexatious (abusive, humiliating, hurtful) conduct in the form of comments, gestures or behaviour that : 
are repeated 
are hostile (aggressive, threatening) or unwelcome 
adversely affect the person’s dignity (that is, self-respect, self-esteem) or integrity (physical, psychological or emotional balance) 
make the workplace harmful for the person. 
A single serious incident of such behaviour could also be considered harassment if it has a lasting negative impact on the person. 
Discriminatory harassment is also considered psychological or sexual harassment if it is based on any of the grounds set out in the Charte des droits et libertés de la personne (art. 10) : 
race, colour, ethnic or national origin  
age, language, sex, pregnancy, civil status  
gender identity or expression, sexual orientation 
religion, social condition, political convictions 
a handicap or the use of any means to palliate a handicap 
Psychological or sexual harassment can occur at all levels in the hierarchy of a company: between managerial staff, between coworkers, between a manager and a member of staff. Harassment may also come from clients, a supplier, etc. 
Are you going through a difficult situation at work? Do you think that you or someone else is being psychologically or sexually harassed? Do not hesitate to consult the page “What to do if you think you are being harassed” to find out more about the steps you can take.  



        Forms and publications      


Comprendre et prévenir le harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail - Guide pratique de l'employeur (Guide et modèle)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 81.18 à 81.20





Interpretation Guide – Section 81.18 to 81.20










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace
Active page


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank