Real  estate brokers


As of January 1, 2015, most real estate brokers are covered in the event of a work accident or occupational disease. They have the status of self employed workers who are considered workers who perform work paid by an employer.
A person who is recognized as a self-employed worker by another ministry or public body may be considered a worker according to the laws administered by the CNESST. Each ministry or organization administers its own laws and regulations. Consequently, the status determined by other ministries such as Revenu Québec is not binding on the CNESST.
As with other workers, the employer, that is, the agency, pays the insurance premium (in French only). Real estate brokers do not have to pay for this mandatory coverage (in French only).

Note
Brokers who run an agency, hire staff or offer their services through a corporation they control are not automatically covered by the CNESST plan. In this case, these brokers may take out personal coverage (in French only) to be covered in the event of a work accident or occupational disease.




        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank