Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Certain factors may increase the risk of psychological or sexual harassment.
As an employer, if you notice risk factors in your company, put measures in place to resolve these problems before they escalate and have a negative impact on the workplace. By taking prompt action, you can prevent a situation of psychological or sexual harassment in your workplace.
Detect risk factors
Be attentive to what is going on in the workplace, such as changes in people’s behaviour or the formation of cliques
Be attentive to tension between people
Have one-on-one meetings with workers to discuss their expectations and job satisfaction
Consult staff about risk factors
Talk to anyone who is leaving your company to find out why they are leaving
Do an annual review of events that occurred during the year. For example, study the absenteeism rate, the turnover rate, the nature of staff requests for improvements
Monitor risk factors
Certain situations may increase the risk of harassment. For example, periods of major change, such as restructuring, a company merger or a change in technology, can be more critical periods. Here are some more examples of risk factors to monitor:
lack of respect between coworkers
interpersonal conflicts
envy, jealousy or rivalry
lack of communication between management and staff or between staff members
excessive competition
lack of clarity about the tasks to be performed
lack of training or support during a change (e.g., change in technology)
unsuitable work tools
the arrival of new manager or an in-house promotion

Did you know?
Two of the most common risk factors are:
failing to deal with interpersonal conflicts
denying that harassment might be occurring in the company




        Forms and publications      


Comprendre et prévenir le harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail - Guide pratique de l'employeur (Guide et modèle)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 81.18 à 81.20





Interpretation Guide – Section 81.18 to 81.20










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace
Active page


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank