Relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury


A relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury occurs when the injury reappears or worsens after it has consolidated (healed or stabilized). If you have had a work accident or an occupational disease, this can happen to you.
What is meant by a relapse, a recurrence and an aggravation?
A relapse is the return, the reappearance of the symptoms of an injury that was in the process of healing.
A recurrence is the reappearance of an injury after a more or less long period of recovery.
An aggravation is an increase in the severity of an injury or its effects.
Admissibility of a relapse, recurrence or aggravation
The CNESST determines whether the employment injury is a relapse, a recurrence or an aggravation. To be admissible, you must show that after a past injury or illness had consolidated (healed or stabilized), there:
has been a change in your medical condition since the injury healed or stabilized
is something new in terms of treatment, prescribed or administered, that is likely to improve your health
If you think you have had a relapse, a recurrence or an aggravation of an employment injury, you must fill out a Worker's claim form and send it to the CNESST. You must fill out a new claim even if you had already filled one out when your work accident occurred or your occupational disease first appeared.


Online service for workers
La Réclamation du travailleur (Worker claim) is a service available from MonEspace CNESST that allows you to claim compensation or reimbursement. By using this service, your file can be processed more quickly.
The CNESST will inform you by email of the status of your file. You will be asked to consult messages and documents placed in this secure space.
Fill in the work claim 







        Forms and publications      


Worker's claim (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Workers
 Active page


Compensation and reimbursements


Compensation


Income replacement indemnity


Income replacement indemnity for the first 14 days


Compensation for bodily injury


Retirement plan indemnity


Death benefits


RL-5 and T5007 tax slips




Reimbursements and allowance


Personal home assistance allowance


Reimbursement for damaged clothing


Reimbursement for damaged orthotic or prosthetic devices


Reimbursement for medical aid


Reimbursement of the cost of routine home maintenance work


Reimbursement of travel, meal and accommodation expenses


Remboursement de frais liés aux formations pour les mécanismes de prévention propres à un chantier de construction






Work accident or occupational disease
Active page


Occupational disease


Work accident


What should you do if you have a work accident?


The worker’s claim process: step by step


Admissibility of a claim


Choosing between the CNESST and another compensation plan


Relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank