Right to refuse to perform a task


In some circumstances, workers may refuse to perform a task.
Unsafe work 
If a worker believes a task is unsafe for themselves or another person, they must immediately notify their superior (or a representative of the employer). They must tell them why they believe the task is unsafe. The worker has the right to refuse to perform the task. The worker must remain available at the workplace to perform other tasks.
The employer and the worker or their representative (health and safety representative, union representative or the person designated by the worker who is exercising their right of refusal) must propose measures and make corrections to resolve the problem together. If a satisfactory solution is not found, they may ask a CNESST inspector (in French only) to intervene. The inspector will determine whether or not the worker's refusal to do the task is warranted. The “Cadre d’intervention en prévention-inspection : Droit de refus” (in French only) provides a detailed description of the intervention carried out by an inspector.
In making their decision, the inspector consults the various parties, takes note of the file and consults all the information made available to them. The inspector's decision is effective immediately and must be complied with even if the employer or the worker do not agree with it. They may file an application for a review of the decision with the CNESST.
An employer may ask someone else to replace a person who refuses to perform a task when:
the employer and the health and safety representative believe that the refusal is not warranted 
the employer and the health and safety representative believe that the refusal is warranted only in the worker’s specific case
The person must be informed of the worker's refusal to perform the task and the reasons for their refusal. The person may then agree or refuse to perform the work.
Despite these rules, a person may not refuse to perform a task:
if their refusal would endanger the life, health or safety of other people
if there is a risk of destruction or serious damage to movable or immovable property or in any other case of force majeure
if the refusal violates their code of ethics
	 



        Forms and publications      


Cadre d'intervention en prévention-inspection : droit de refus (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)










Secondary menu


 Work schedule
 Active page


Standard work week


Presence at work, breaks and weekly rest period


Worker training


Right to refuse to work
Active page


Right to refuse to perform a task


Right to refuse to work overtime




Staggered work hours









Frequently asked questions



  Is the right to refuse to work because the worker was not informed of the work schedule 5 days in advance excluded in some sectors of activity?


No. The nature of the worker’s duties determine whether or not they have the right to refuse to work, not the employer’s sector of activity. For example, in a snow removal company, a receptionist would have the right to refuse to work because she was not informed of her schedule 5 days in advance. However, her snow removal operator coworker could not refuse for this reason because of the nature of his work.
















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank