Right to manage 


What is the right to manage? It is the employer's right to direct their workers and to make decisions to ensure the profitability of their company and the smooth running of their affairs. It allows the employer to supervise their staff to ensure they comply with the rules in force in the company.
Exercising the right to manage
The employer decides what tasks must be done, how to do them and when to do them. Here are some examples of what is part of the exercise of the employer's right to manage:
The assignment of tasks
The management of
	staff performance
discipline and disciplinary measures
attendance and absences

Terminations, layoffs and dismissals
The prevention of psychological or sexual harassment
Ensuring the health and safety of staff in the workplace is also part of the exercise of the employer's right to manage. For example, the employer could require their workers to do training and to wear a harness to do their work. If a worker does not wear a harness, the employer could give them a penalty.

Example of the proper exercise of the right to manage
Mathilde and Ismaël are receptionists in a veterinary clinic. Ismaël has a few more months of seniority than Mathilde. But, 2 months ago, Mathilde was promoted to team leader. She is now Ismaël's team leader.
Ismaël found it hard to accept that his co-worker had been promoted and his heart was no longer in his work. He was negligent in his work and often arrived late. Mathilde had to reprimand him several times, but in vain. After repeatedly asking him to arrive on time, she had to sanction him by suspending him without pay for one day.
Assigning tasks, evaluating performance and imposing disciplinary measures are part of an employer’s right to manage.

Properly exercising the right to manage means, among other things:
making clear and firm demands based on the needs of the company
supervising the execution and quality of the work in an objective and respectful manner
making expectations known and, if necessary, giving the worker the means and the time to meet them
managing discipline in a progressive, fact-based, reasonable and fair manner and take the appropriate disciplinary measures
The proper exercise of the right to manage is done with respect for workers.
Disciplinary measures and their application
Disciplinary measures allow the employer to inform a worker of their failings, thereby giving them the opportunity to change their conduct (behaviour, attitude, interpersonal relationships or substandard performance).
When the employer applies disciplinary measures, it must:
do so gradually
do so in a manner that allows the worker to meet requirements
give the worker the means to meet requirements
give the worker the necessary time to meet requirements
The worker must:
be fully informed of the case against them
know what they need to do to correct their behaviour
understand the consequences associated with the unsuitable behaviour
be given a reasonable amount to time to correct their behaviour
Gradation of sanctions
The following are some examples of gradual sanctions:
a verbal warning
a written warning (email, disciplinary notice, etc.)
a letter placed in the worker’s personnel file
suspension
dismissal
Sanctions must be applied according to the seriousness of the behaviour. Except in the case of gross misconduct, a worker should not be dismissed for disciplinary reasons unless all other sanctions have failed, and the person has been informed of the case against them and given a reasonable amount of time to correct their behaviour. 



        See also      


L'épicerie - Une situation d'exercice du droit de gérance (video - in French only)






        Forms and publications      


Comprendre et prévenir le harcèlement psychologique ou sexuel au travail - Guide pratique de l'employeur (Guide et modèle)








Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank