Sale, merger or purchase of a company 


When there is a change in their company, such as the sale, merger or acquisition of a company, the employer must report these changes to the CNESST  (in French only). Other factors must be taken into account in these circumstances.
Maintenance of the employment relationship
When a company changes owner, the staff’s employment relationship is maintained, as if no change had occurred. For this principle to apply, the new owner must demonstrate the continuity of the company’s operation.
Claims for amounts owed under the Act respecting labour standards that were not settled before the change are not cancelled. In this case, the former owner and the new owner are solidarily liable for payment of the amounts owed. The former owner may not be held liable for claims arising from events that occurred after the sale of the company.
Pay equity obligations
Pay equity obligations are generally transferred to the new employer. The new employer must therefore respect the former employer’s obligations to the workers, whether for an initial pay equity exercise  or for the pay equity audit (in French only).
The employer may make a due diligence (in French only) request to the CNESST to verify whether pay equity remedies have taken place in the company they wish to acquire.
To support employers in their pay equity obligations, tools, such as training sessions and webinars, or specialized assistance are provided. They can also contact us.
 



        Forms and publications      


Autorisation de l'employeur d'accès à des dossiers dans le cadre de vérifications diligentes (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)





Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES) – Article 76.11










Secondary menu


 Termination of employment
 Active page


Termination, layoff, dismissal and resignation


Notice of termination of employment and indemnity


Collective dismissal


Insolvency and bankruptcy of a company


How to claim sums owed in the event of an employer’s bankruptcy


How to claim wage adjustments in the event of a company’s bankruptcy or insolvency




Sale, merger or purchase of a company


How to calculate the regular wage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank