Self-employed workers


If you are a self-employed worker, you carry on one or more professional activities for your own account. Your client pays for your services in the form of a fee rather than paying you wages or a salary. The relationship with your client is based on a contract for services.
You have your own work tools and equipment and can make profits or losses. This is mainly what distinguishes you from employees. 
Labour standards
 
Self-employed workers are not covered by the Loi sur les normes du travail. Under the Act, they may not exercise a recourse with the CNESST.
Pay equity

Self-employed workers are excluded from the Loi sur l’équité salariale. This means they are not counted among the workers of a company. 
Occupational health and safety
Self-employed workers are not automatically covered in the event of a work accident or occupational disease. To be covered, they must apply for personal coverage (in French only). This coverage is optional.
Self-employed women are not covered by the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program.
Self-employed workers are not covered by the Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail.
Self-employed person who is considered a worker
A worker may have the status of a self-employed person with a ministry or other public body and be considered a worker with respect to occupational health and safety.
A self-employed person may be considered a worker by the CNESST. This means they are covered by their client in the event of a work accident or occupational disease. They are not entitled to other employee benefits, such as paid vacation and sick leave. However, they are entitled to pay equity.
 



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)





Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES)





Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)










Secondary menu


 Categories of workers
 Active page


Farm workers


Personnel placement agency workers


Self-employed workers


Clothing industry workers


Temporary foreign workers


Seasonal workers


Workers who are not covered













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank