Senior managers


The senior manager of a company does not have the same status as workers in terms of the recourses they may exercise with the CNESST.
Specific provisions
Loi sur les normes du travail
Senior managers are covered only by labour standards relating to retirement, psychological harassment and leave for family or parental obligations. They are not covered by the other standards.
Loi sur la santé et sécurité du travail
Senior managers are excluded from the Loi sur la santé et sécurité du travail.
Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles
Senior managers benefit from the mandatory coverage (in French only) provided for under the Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles. The only exclusion for these managers concerns the officer of a legal person, i.e., a person with rights and obligations.
Loi sur l’équité salariale
Senior managers are not considered employees in the calculation of the number of workers for the purposes of applying the Loi sur l’équité salariale.
What is a senior manager?
A senior manager must be a member of senior management. This staff member must, for example, report to the owner, president, board of directors or managing director of the company.
They participate in the development of the company's major orientations and major decisions concerning its profitability or growth and its general strategies and policies. They have fairly significant decision-making authority and can commit the company on key issues without having to refer to a higher authority other than the managing director.
Middle managers
A distinction must be made between senior managers and so-called middle managers who are, for example, responsible for managing routine or day-to-day operations or implementing management's orientations. These workers, who have a managerial title, do not meet the CNESST’s definition of a senior manager.



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 3





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 54





Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)





 Loi sur l'équité salariale




Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)





Interpretation Guide - Section 3





Interpretation Guide – Section 54










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank