Service quality complaints


We are committed to providing you with quality services and meeting your needs. If, despite our efforts, you are not satisfied with the services offered or provided by the CNESST, you may file a complaint.
Our commitment
The quality of our services is our top priority. Our Statement of Services (in French only) sets out the values underlying our actions: respect, fairness and professionalism. We take various measures to ensure you are satisfied with our services. 
To ensure your satisfaction, we have developed a policy (in French only) based on best practices for managing service quality complaints. 
Complaints are examined rigorously and impartially in accordance with our Statement of Services. When we receive your complaint, we will:  
call you back within 2 working days 
respond to your complaint within 10 working days 
take the necessary corrective measures, if possible 
How to file a service quality complaint
Your complaint must be filed, verbally or in writing, with the Quality Complaints Service. This service is separate from the CNESST’s other administrative units.  
Your complaint must include: 
your first name and surname 
your telephone number because this is how we will contact you 
additional information about the reasons for your complaint 
Ways to file a complaint
Online
To start the procedure to file a complaint online, use our admissibility questionnaire which can be accessed on the How to file a complaint page. 
You can also contact us: 
By mail

Quality Complaints Service 
	CNESST 
	P.O. Box 6056, Centre-Ville Branch 
	Montréal (Québec) H3C 4E1

By telephone

Telephone (Montreal region): 514 906-3040 
	Toll free: 1 800 667-7585 
	You can leave a voicemail any time.

By fax

Fax: 514 906-3042

By email

Email: plaintes.qualite@cnesst.gouv.qc.ca

Important
Do not send personal or confidential information by email.


 



        Forms and publications      


Politique de gestion des plaintes sur la qualité des services (Document d’information)













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank