Standard work week


The standard work week is used to determine at what point workers begin to do overtime.  
The standard work week is 40 hours for most workers. This means that someone who worked 45 hours in a week did 5 hours of overtime. 
The standard work week is not a time limit after which someone may refuse to work.
Special conditions

A standard work week is not 40 hours for the following workers

Types of workers
Number of hours
Security guards who guard a property on behalf of a security firm
44 hours
Workers who work in a logging operation or a sawmill
47 hours
Workers who work in a remote area or in the James Bay territory
55 hours
Security guards who do not work for a security firm
60 hours
Remote area
A remote area is a location that cannot be accessed by road and is not connected to Québec’s road network by any regular transport system.
Worker in the James Bay territory
People who carry out work in the James Bay territory under the responsibility of Hydro-Québec, the Société d’énergie de la Baie James or the Société de développement de la Baie James.



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 52 à 59.0.1





Guide Interprétation et jurisprudence – Articles 52 à 59.0.1










Secondary menu


 Work schedule
 Active page


Standard work week


Presence at work, breaks and weekly rest period


Worker training


Right to refuse to work


Right to refuse to perform a task


Right to refuse to work overtime




Staggered work hours













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank