Strawberry and raspberry picking



Strawberry and raspberry pickers are paid on a piece work basis.  

The following rates came into effect on May 1, 2023
Minimum wage rate for strawberry pickers: $1.21 per kilogram 
Minimum wage rate for raspberry pickers: $4.53 per kilogram 

Since they are paid on a piece work basis, the employer should weigh the containers filled by the pickers to pay them the wages that correspond exactly to the weight of the fruit they have picked. 
Output affected by the state of the fields or the fruit
The state of the fields or the fruit, or other reasons beyond the worker’s control, such as a drought, may lower a strawberry or raspberry picker's output. In this case, the picker must be paid at least the minimum hourly wage rate. They must be paid the difference between the minimum wage rate and the piece work rate.  
To find out if a picker's output is affected by the state of the fields or the fruit, the picker’s output must be compared with the output of other pickers. If most pickers are paid at least the minimum wage, the state of the fields or the fruit cannot account for one picker’s lower output. In this case, the picker will be paid only the piece work rate. 
How the piece work wage is calculated

Example
Mathieu and Alexandra pick raspberries. Mathieu worked 7 hours and Alexandra worked 9 hours. At the end of the day, each had picked 35 kilograms of raspberries at a rate of $4.53 per kilogram. Their wage will be calculated as follows: 
Piecework wage: 35 kg X $4.53 = $158.55 
In this example, Mathieu and Alexandra’s hourly rate is higher than the minimum wage. The state of the fields or the fruit did not affect their output. Mathieu and Alexandra will each be paid $158.55 for their day.
Hourly rate for Mathieu: $158.55 ÷ 7 hours = $22.65
Hourly rate for Alexandra: $158.55 ÷ 9 hours = $17.62

How the wage is calculated when the state of the fields or the fruit affects output

Example
Roberto picks strawberries. He worked 7 hours and picked 80 kilograms at a rate of $1.21 per kilogram. His wage will be calculated as follows:
Piece work wage: 80 kg X $1.21 = $96.80 
In this example, Roberto’s output means that he has not reached the minimum wage rate. This is also the case for most of the other pickers. The state of the fields or the fruit has affected their output.
Minimum wage for 7 hours of work: $15.25 X 7 = $106.75
The employer will have to give Roberto and his coworkers who are in the same situation the difference between the minimum wage and what they earned with the piece work wage.
Difference between the minimum wage and the piece work wage: $106.75 - $96.80 = $9.95
The employer will have to add the amount of $9.95 to the piece work wage paid to Roberto and his coworkers’ who are in the same situation.




        See also      


Ma paye ça compte  



 monCalcul




Complaints and recourses






        Forms and publications      


Travail agricole - Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)



Bulletin d'enregistrement pour la cueillette journalière de fraises et de framboises (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 4.1










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages
Active page


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work











Frequently asked question



  Can a strawberry or raspberry producer decide to pay their workers the minimum wage instead of the piecework wage? 



No. Under the Act respecting labour standards, these workers are paid on a piecework basis. A strawberry or raspberry picker can earn more than the minimum wage depending on their output.








  If a strawberry or raspberry picker realizes that they have not been paid the equivalent of the minimum wage at the end of their work day, does their employer have to pay them the difference? 



Yes. But only if the state of the fields or the fruit is responsible. Otherwise, they will be paid their piecework wage.





 












Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank