Students who work at a summer camp


Students who work at a summer camp or in a non-profit social or community organization, such as a day camp, are entitled to the same conditions under the Loi sur les normes du travail as other workers except for minimum wage, overtime and vacation.
A summer camp, that is, a sleep-away camp, should not be confused with a day camp, where the children and counsellors go home at night. The summer camp does not have to be recognized as a non-profit organization for the exceptions to apply.
Specific provisions
Wages
Students who work at a summer camp or in a non-profit social or community organization, such as a day camp, are excluded from the minimum wage standard.
The minimum wage is mandatory only if the summer camp or day camp is for profit.
Overtime
Hours worked after the standard work week (40 hours) must be paid on a straight time basis and not on a time and a half basis for students who work at a summer camp or in a non-profit social or community organization.
Vacation
Students who work at a summer camp or in a non-profit social or community organization do not have paid annual vacation.
Training
As with other workers, students must be paid when they are doing training. Furthermore, the employer cannot impose a trial or probationary period without paying them.



        Forms and publications      


Activité 6 : Le travail en colonie de vacances - Guide de l'enseignant (Guide et modèle)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 54





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 77





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 88





Interpretation Guide – Section 54





Interpretation Guide – Section 77





Interpretation Guide – Section 88










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank