Suspension, division or extension of leave


When a newborn child has to be hospitalized, the following leaves may be suspended if the worker chooses to return to work temporarily during the hospitalization:
•    Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth 
•    Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child
•    Parental leave  
In such cases, the worker must reach an agreement with their employer.
These leaves are normally taken on a continuous basis. They can be divided into weeks in some specific situations. For example, if the child's hospitalization is short and the parent wants to stay with their child, the leave may be divided into weeks, but not days.

Example 
Hugo's partner gave birth to their first child last week. Hugo had agreed with his employer that as soon as the baby was born, he would begin his 5-week paternity leave.
But, bad news, Hugo's son has to go back to hospital. Although the leave must be taken on a continuous basis, Hugo asks his employer to allow him to return to work and continue his paternity leave when his child comes home. Because Hugo's child is hospitalized, his paternity leave may be suspended.

Situations that allow the worker to divide the leave 
Hospitalization of a newborn 
Serious illness or accident of one of them or one of their relatives 
Serious illness or accident of a person for whom one of them acts as an informal caregiver. 
Serious injury to their minor child as a result of a criminal offence 
Disappearance or death of their minor child  
Suicide of the spouse, father, mother or their child of full age  
Death of the spouse or their child of full age as a result of a criminal offence 
Extension of leave 
Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth, paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child and parental leave may be extended if the newborn's health requires it.
In all cases, the worker must provide a medical certificate to the employer before the end of their leave. 
Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth may also be extended if the mother's condition requires it. The leave will be extended for the length of time indicated on the medical certificate. 
During the extension of the leave, without pay, the employment relationship with the employer is protected. 
 



        See also      


Régime québécois d’assurance parentale (RQAP)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide – Section 79.7










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave
Active page


Adoption or birth
Active page


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank