Temporary foreign workers


A temporary foreign worker is a foreign citizen who is staying or wishes to stay in Québec temporarily to carry out work with a Québec employer under the Programme des travailleurs étrangers temporaires.
Temporary foreign workers have the same rights and obligations (in French only) with respect to work as all workers in Québec. An employer who hires temporary foreign workers also has the same rights and obligations (in French only) toward them as toward other employees. 

Are you a temporary foreign worker?
Visit our page I am a temporary foreign worker (in French only). You will find all the relevant information there to learn more about your rights and obligations with respect to work in Québec.

Temporary foreign worker recruitment agency
Documents that must be given to a temporary foreign worker
A temporary foreign worker recruitment agency or employer who hires a temporary foreign worker directly must provide the temporary foreign worker with:
a document that describes their working conditions and indicates the name and contact information of the client company 
the leaflet What you need to know about employment, provided by the CNESST, which explains workers’ rights and employers’ obligations with respect to work
What a temporary foreign worker may not be asked or required to do
An employer or temporary foreign worker recruitment agency ( in French only) is prohibited from:
asking a temporary foreign worker to entrust them with documents or personal property, such as their passport, work permit, telephone, etc.
requiring a temporary foreign worker to pay recruitment fees (except those authorized by a Canadian government program)

Important
An employer who hires a temporary foreign worker must report it to the CNESST (in French only).
If they retain the services of a temporary foreign worker recruitment agency, they must ensure that it holds a valid licence (in French only) issued by the CNESST.

Labour standards
If you are a domestic worker, a babysitter, a care provider or a farm worker, special conditions apply to your situation.
Pay equity
Temporary foreign workers must be included when calculating the number of workers in the company that hires them and in its pay equity work (in French only), where applicable.
Occupational health and safety
Temporary foreign workers are protected by the Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail and covered by the Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles in the event of a work accident or occupational disease. 



        Forms and publications      


Travailleur et employeur - Ce que vous devez savoir en matière de travail (Document d’information)



Is your job recognized at its fair value? (Document d’information)



Did you arrive in Québec recently? What you need to know about occupational health and safety (Document d’information)



Travail agricole - Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)





Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)





Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES)










Secondary menu


 Categories of workers
 Active page


Farm workers


Personnel placement agency workers


Self-employed workers


Clothing industry workers


Temporary foreign workers


Seasonal workers


Workers who are not covered













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank