The worker’s claim process: step by step


You have reported your work accident or occupational disease to your employer and you have sent your Worker's claim form to the CNESST. This is what happens once your claim is received and how your claim will be handled by the CNESST:

The CNESST receives the “Worker's claim” form
When the CNESST receives your Worker's claim form, your file is opened and you are assigned a file number.



The admissibility of the claim is examined
The CNESST will examine your file to determine whether or not it is admissible.
To determine whether or not the claim is admissible, it is important that you send all the documents (medical certificate, prescriptions, receipts, etc.) relevant to the examination of your file with your Worker's claim form. This will facilitate the processing of your file.





Your claim is admissible
We will contact you in writing to let you know the decision.
You will be able to apply for benefits or file your claims for the reimbursement of expenses.
If your medical condition requires rehabilitation, a rehabilitation counsellor will be assigned to you.




Your claim is denied
If your case does not qualify, we will contact you in writing. If you do not agree with the CNESST’s decision, you may contest the decision.





Reimbursement of expenses
When your claim is accepted after your accident or the onset of your occupational disease, you are entitled to receive the health services, care and treatments required for your medical condition. The CNESST pays the hospital or clinic fees.
You might have to pay certain expenses that may be reimbursed when your claim is accepted. For example:
medications and pharmaceutical products
physiotherapy, occupational therapy, chiropractic treatments
orthotics and prosthetics (in French only)
travel and living expenses
the cost of routine home maintenance work (these expenses must have been authorized by a rehabilitation counsellor for you to be entitled to a reimbursement)
the cost of personal home assistance (these expenses must have been authorized by a rehabilitation counsellor for you to be entitled to a reimbursement)
To file a claim for the reimbursement of expenses, you can use the Application for reimbursement of expenses form and enclose your supporting documents, such as a physician's prescription or an invoice.





Income replacement indemnity
You are entitled to an income replacement indemnity to replace lost wages until you return to work.



Return to work
Your employer may offer you a temporary assignment until you are able to do your job or a suitable job.
When your injury has healed or is stable, if your condition allows, you can return to your regular job.
In the event that your employment injury means that you are unable to do your regular job, you will identify a suitable job together with the CNESST and your employer.



Relapse, recurrence or aggravation
In the event of a relapse, recurrence or aggravation of your injury or disease, you must file a new Worker's claim form even if you have already filed one in the past for the same work accident or the same occupational disease.



If you have filled a claim in MonEspace CNESST
The CNESST will inform you by email of the status of your file. You will be asked to consult messages and documents placed in this secure space.






        Forms and publications      


Worker's claim (Formulaire)



Appendices to the Worker’s claim in the case of an occupational disease (Formulaire)



Application for reimbursement of expenses (Formulaire)



En cas d’accident ou de maladie du travail… voici ce qu’il faut savoir! (Document d’information)








Secondary menu


 Workers
 Active page


Compensation and reimbursements


Compensation


Income replacement indemnity


Income replacement indemnity for the first 14 days


Compensation for bodily injury


Retirement plan indemnity


Death benefits


RL-5 and T5007 tax slips




Reimbursements and allowance


Personal home assistance allowance


Reimbursement for damaged clothing


Reimbursement for damaged orthotic or prosthetic devices


Reimbursement for medical aid


Reimbursement of the cost of routine home maintenance work


Reimbursement of travel, meal and accommodation expenses


Remboursement de frais liés aux formations pour les mécanismes de prévention propres à un chantier de construction






Work accident or occupational disease
Active page


Occupational disease


Work accident


What should you do if you have a work accident?


The worker’s claim process: step by step


Admissibility of a claim


Choosing between the CNESST and another compensation plan


Relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank