The CNESST’s role in pay equity


The CNESST plays 2 roles in the application of the Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES).
Support
Our objective is to support employers and workers by raising their awareness and informing them about pay equity. We help employers achieve pay equity in their companies and fulfil their obligations. We also help workers ensure their rights are respected and know what to do when they are not. 
To support our objective, we produce a variety of tools and offer training sessions. We also develop partnerships with several actors in the world of work. We also offer specialized assistance by telephone. 
Enforcement of the Act
When we receive a complaint, our first step is to conduct an investigation. Based on the facts gathered during the investigation, we decide which measures must be applied. 
We also intervene on request when there is a disagreement in a pay equity committee to resolve the conflict.
In both cases, we offer mediation to the parties. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, we will render a decision. 
If you believe that a decision rendered in your file is not satisfactory, you may appeal to the Tribunal administratif du travail. The CNESST may also report to the Tribunal that the measures imposed by a decision were not applied on time or in the correct manner. 
If the CNESST's audit program reveals that a company is not complying with its pay equity obligations, the company must comply with the decision rendered by the CNESST. The offending company will have its name published on the CNESST's website in the list of offending employers and is liable to criminal proceedings resulting in a fine of $1,000 to $45,000.



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES)










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage
Active page


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank