Victims of crime


Workers who are victims of a crime that renders them unable to perform their regular job may be absent from work without pay for up to 104 weeks. During their absence, their employment relationship is protected.
Workers may also be absent from work if:
their minor child suffers serious injuries as a result of a criminal offence
their spouse or child of full age dies as a result of a criminal offence
The period of absence begins at the earliest on the day of the event.
Exception
The possibility of being absent from work does not apply if the worker or the deceased person (spouse or child of full age) participated in the criminal offence or contributed to the injury through their gross fault, i.e., through their recklessness, carelessness or gross negligence.
If their minor child dies while participating in a criminal offence, the worker is entitled to the period of absence.
Days of absence with pay
After 3 months of uninterrupted service with their employer, the worker could be entitled to 2 days of absence with pay if these days have not been used for another reason during the year.
Notice to the employer
A worker who is absent from work as a result of a criminal offence must notify their employer as soon as possible and state the reason for their absence. Under certain circumstances, the employer may request a document justifying the worker’s absence.
Return to work
The worker's regular position and benefits are protected for the duration of their absence following a criminal offence.
When the worker returns to work, the employer must reinstate them in their regular position and give them the wages they would have been entitled to had they remained at work.



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.1 à 89





Interpretation Guide – Section 79.1 to 79.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave


Adoption or birth


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations
Active page


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank