Volunteers


Volunteers are people who perform tasks free of charge and voluntarily for an employer, an organization or a responsible authority (a municipality, RCM or ministry).
Important
Volunteers are not covered by the Loi sur les normes du travail or the Loi sur l’équité salariale.

Occupational health and safety
To be recognized as a volunteer under the Loi sur la santé et de la sécurité du travail, the assistance offered must be accepted by the employer, organization or responsible authority.
As with other workers, volunteers may be in situations that put their health and safety at risk. However, they are not automatically insured by the CNESST in the event of a work accident.
In order for volunteers to be protected in the event of a work accident, the employer must apply for coverage for volunteer workers (in French only). This coverage is optional.
Volunteers who assist personnel deployed during an event covered by the Loi sur la sécurité civile or during a state of emergency such as spring floods are protected by the CNESST. The responsible authority is then considered to be the employer of these people. The responsible authority must maintain a detailed register of the names and addresses of people who participate in civil protection activities.
In the event of a work accident, volunteers who are protected may be entitled to income replacement indemnity and, if necessary, receive health care and physical, social and vocational rehabilitation.
Coverage for volunteers in the event of a work accident excludes the right to return to work.
Volunteer responsibilities
As with other workers, volunteers have a responsibility to take the necessary safety precautions to protect their own health and safety and to ensure that they do not endanger the health and safety of others. Each sector of activity has its own risks.
Volunteers are advised to check with their employer to find out if they have insurance coverage from the CNESST.
Employer responsibilities
Measures must be taken by employers to protect the health and safety of volunteers. In particular, the employer must:
ensure the safe organization of work
provide the necessary protective equipment
inform volunteers of the risks associated with the work
provide appropriate instruction, supervision and training
The employer must take all the necessary preventive measures to prevent work accidents and occupational diseases.



        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank