Wage disparity


An employer is not allowed to offer a worker an hourly wage lower than the one it pays its employees who perform the same tasks in the same establishment based solely on the worker’s employment status, for example because the worker usually works fewer hours a week. The Loi sur les normes du travail prohibits this practice among employers and personnel placement agencies (in French only).
A worker’s employment status may be, for example, full time, part time, on call, permanent or casual. 
An employer could justify offering a different wage to workers who perform the same tasks in the same establishment if the distinction is based on seniority or experience, for example. 
Workers may file a wage complaint if they believe their employer is paying them a lower wage than the one paid to other workers performing the same tasks in the same establishment only because of their employment status.
Example of wage disparity

Maxime and Charles start the same job on the same day in the same establishment. Their employer pays Maxime a lower hourly wage than Charles, just because Maxime works part time, while Charles works full time.

Example of a situation that does not constitute wage disparity

Maxime and Charles do the same job in the same establishment. Their employer pays Maxime a lower hourly wage than Charles, because Charles has more experience and seniority than Maxime does.


 



        See also      


 Wage complaint







        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages
Active page


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank