Wages - Employees receiving tips



The minimum wage for employees receiving gratuities and tips is currently $12.20 per hour. This rate has been in effect since May 1, 2023. 
An employer must pay those workers who receive gratuities and tips a wage equal to or greater than the minimum rate in effect. 
What are tips and gratuities?
A tip or gratuity is an amount that a customer freely chooses to remit in exchange for a service. The amount can be included in the service charges added to the bill. 
The tip or gratuity is added to the wage paid by the employer.  
Employers who collect the tip are required to remit it, in full, to the worker who provided the customer with the service. 
Who can be paid the wage rate intended for workers who receive tips and gratuities?
An employee is considered a worker who receives tips and gratuities if he or she usually receives tips and works full-time or part-time in:
a restaurant (except for fast-food restaurants) 
an enterprise that sells, delivers or serves meals to be eaten off the premises 
a bar or an event where alcoholic beverages are sold on the premises 
a train or a ship where food or alcoholic beverages are sold 
an establishment that offers tourist accommodations, including a campground. 
Workers who receive tips and gratuities can take part in a tip sharing arrangement.



        See also      


Complaints and recourses






        Forms and publications      


Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 39.1 à 51.1





Interpretation Guide – Section 39.1 to 51.1










Secondary menu


 Wages and Pay
 Active page


Wages
Active page


Minimum wage


Wages - Employees receiving tips


Tip sharing arrangement


Commission-based wages


Piece work wage


Strawberry and raspberry picking


Wage disparity


Overtime


Employment contract




Right to a fair wage


The CNESST’s role in pay equity


Pay equity training sessions




Pay


Pay slip


Deductions


Meal and accommodation costs


Special clothing and equipment required at work


Material, equipment or merchandise that is required at work















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank