Wedding or civil union


Workers may be absent from work for their wedding or civil union. Their employment relationship is protected.
Absence for a wedding or civil union
On the day of their wedding or civil union, a worker may be absent from work with pay.
The salary that their employer must pay them for this day of absence with pay is equivalent to what the person would have earned if they had worked.
A worker may also be absent from work for one day, without pay, for the wedding or civil union of:
their child
their father, mother or one of their parents
their brother or sister
their spouse’s child
All workers may be absent under these circumstances, regardless of the length of their uninterrupted service and their employment status (full time, part time, temporary, casual or on call, for example).
Whatever the situation, the worker must advise their employer of their absence at least one week in advance. The day off may not be deferred to a date later than the date of the wedding or civil union.
Example of a wedding that takes place on a day that is in the usual work schedule

Philippe normally works 8 hours a day, from Wednesday to Sunday at an hourly rate of $22. Philippe receives $176 per day of work ($22 x 8 hours of work = $176).
He is getting married at 1 p.m. on Friday. Philippe is entitled to 1 day off with pay for his wedding, since he normally works on Friday.
Therefore, his employer will pay him $176 in total for his day of absence.

Example of a wedding that takes place on a day that is not in the usual work schedule

Mayra works Monday to Friday from noon to 8 p.m. She is getting married at 11 a.m. on Saturday. Mayra is not entitled to 1 day off with pay, since she does not normally work on Saturday.




        Forms and publications      


Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 79.6.1 à 81.17





Interpretation Guide –  Section 79.6.1 to 81.17.6










Secondary menu


 Leave
 Active page


Statutory holidays


Statutory holidays


Calculating the indemnity for a statutory holiday




Family-related leave
Active page


Adoption or birth


Maternity leave or leave in connection with pregnancy or childbirth


Paternity leave or leave for the parent who did not give birth to the child


Five days of leave


Parental leave


Adoption


Special leave during pregnancy


Suspension, division ou prolongation du congé




Family or parental obligations


Wedding or civil union


Death and funeral


Suicide of a loved one


Disappearance of a minor child




Annual vacation


Accidents and illnesses


Non–work-related accident or illness




Specific situations


Leave in the event of a termination of pregnancy


Leave for reservists


Leave for organ or tissue donation


Victims of crime


Victims of domestic or sexual violence




Events not covered by labour standards













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank