What should you do if you have a work accident?


If you have a work accident, here’s what you have to do.
1. Inform your employer quickly
Your employer must be informed quickly by you or another person when a work accident occurs. This is essential because your employer has an obligation to provide you with first aid. If you have to go to the hospital, a clinic or even home after your accident, your employer will pay the cost of transportation (ambulance, taxi, public transit, etc.).
Inform your employer about your accident even if you do not need medical attention. It is recommended that the incident be recorded in the Register of Accidents, Incidents and First Aid even if there are no consequences.
2. See a physician
You must see a physician if you are injured. You may consult the physician of your choice. They will give you a medical certificate. You will need it to file your worker's claim.
If you are unable to work for the rest of the day, your employer must pay you 100% of your wages for that day’s absence.
The physician will set your return-to-work date. If you are unable to return to your regular job in the short term, your employer may offer you a temporary assignment.
3. Give the medical certificate to your employer
If you are unable to return to work the day after the accident, you must give the medical certificate to your employer.
Your employer must complete the “Avis de l'employeur et demande de remboursement” form for your first 14 days of absence, send it to CNESST and give you a copy.
Your employer must pay you 90% of your net wages for the days you would normally have worked, not including the day of the accident.
4. Fill out the Worker's claim form


Online service for workers
La Réclamation du travailleur (Worker claim) is a service available from MonEspace CNESST that allows you to claim compensation or reimbursement. By using this service, your file can be processed more quickly.
The CNESST will inform you by email of the status of your file. You will be asked to consult messages and documents placed in this secure space.
Fill in the work claim 




The Worker's claim form is used to file your claim for compensation with the CNESST, for example if you have to be absent from work for more than 14 days. You must have completed your claim to be able to claim certain expenses such as medical or travel expenses. You can be reimbursed for expenses even if you did not have to be absent from work.

Important
You have 6 months to file your claim with the CNESST from the date of your accident.

When you file your claim, send us all the relevant documents, such as your medical certificate, receipts and prescriptions. This will facilitate the processing of your claim. Give a copy of your claim to your employer too.
If your work accident occurred outside Québec, you may have to choose between being compensated by the CNESST or by another organization that administers a compensation plan.
5. Undergo medical examinations
It is important that you undergo all the medical examinations requested and that you follow all the treatments prescribed by your physician. You may have to undergo additional medical examinations if requested by the CNESST or your employer.
You are obliged to attend the medical examinations. Therefore, it is important to follow your physician's recommendations to ensure that your file is as complete as possible. If you do not attend the examinations, there may be penalties on the amounts that may be paid to you.
6. Inform the CNESST of any changes in your situation
You must inform us of any changes in your medical situation or that could affect your case. For example, a change in your health or a move must be reported to the CNESST to keep your file up to date.
When you know the date of your return to work, you must inform your employer and the CNESST immediately.



        Forms and publications      


En cas d’accident ou de maladie du travail… voici ce qu’il faut savoir! (Document d’information)



Worker's claim (Formulaire)



Avis de l'employeur et demande de remboursement (ADR) – Accident du travail – Maladie professionnelle (Formulaire)



Application for reimbursement of expenses (Formulaire)



Appendices to the Worker’s claim in the case of an occupational disease (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Workers
 Active page


Compensation and reimbursements


Compensation


Income replacement indemnity


Income replacement indemnity for the first 14 days


Compensation for bodily injury


Retirement plan indemnity


Death benefits


RL-5 and T5007 tax slips




Reimbursements and allowance


Personal home assistance allowance


Reimbursement for damaged clothing


Reimbursement for damaged orthotic or prosthetic devices


Reimbursement for medical aid


Reimbursement of the cost of routine home maintenance work


Reimbursement of travel, meal and accommodation expenses


Remboursement de frais liés aux formations pour les mécanismes de prévention propres à un chantier de construction






Work accident or occupational disease
Active page


Occupational disease


Work accident


What should you do if you have a work accident?


The worker’s claim process: step by step


Admissibility of a claim


Choosing between the CNESST and another compensation plan


Relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank