What to do if you think you are being harassed


Workers’ rights and employers’ obligations
Workers are entitled to a healthy workplace that is free from psychological or sexual harassment. 
Employers have a duty to prevent harassment in their company and to take appropriate steps to put an end to any problematic situations that are brought to their attention. They are required to adopt a psychological or sexual harassment prevention and complaints policy and make it available to all staff members. 
You think you are being harassed
Do you think you are being psychologically or sexually harassed at work? If the situation allows, talk to your employer or to the person appointed by the employer in their prevention policy about it.
You may file a complaint with the CNESST at any time. The complaint must be filed within 2 years of the last incident of harassment  
If you are unionized, contact your union directly.  
If you work in the public service or in a public organization and you are not unionized, contact the Commission de la fonction publique (CFP)  
You think you are witnessing harassment
Witnesses also play a role in a situation of psychological or sexual harassment. By reporting a conflict or situation of harassment that you witnessed to your employer, you can help put an end to it. If the situation allows, talk to your employer or to the person appointed by the employer in their prevention policy about it as soon as possible. 



        See also      


Complaints and recourses






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 81.18 à 81.20





Interpretation Guide – Section 81.18 to 81.20










Secondary menu


 Healthy workplace
 Active page


Return to work


PS-Healthy workplace-Return to work/ Job search support services


Protection of the employment relationship during an absence


Return to work after a work-related injury or illness


Occupational rehabilitation


Gradual return to work proposed by the CNESST


Temporary assignment


Procedure for temporary assignment (in French only)


Duty to accommodate


Undue hardship (in French only)




Harassment in the workplace
Active page


Psychological or sexual harassment in the workplace


Recognizing psychological or sexual harassment


The consequences of psychological or sexual harassment


What to do if you think you are being harassed


Psychological or sexual harassment – Employers’ obligations


Recognizing situations where there is a risk


Examples




Mediation


Mediation service


Preparing for mediation


Understanding the mediator’s role




COVID-19


COVID‑19 Toolkit


Questions and answers – COVID-19


CNESST flexibility measures




Preventing workplace conflict


Right to manage













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank