What it means to be a first aider in the workplace


Obligation to provide assistance
As a first aider in the workplace, you will be responsible for providing assistance to workers whose life is in danger in your workplace. It will be your duty to administer first aid.
How do you become a first aider
Once you have told your employer that you are interested in becoming a first aider, they will register you for a first aid course. Once you have completed the 16-hour course, you will be issued an occupational first aid certificate provided you pass the assessment.  
After the course, participants should be able to: 
follow safety rules and protective measures 
assess the situation 
assess the person’s clinical condition and recognize their signs and symptoms 
follow resuscitation protocols and specific protocols for the person’s health problem 
understand the consequences of their actions 
Your first aid certificate is valid for 3 years. After 3 years, you will have to take the course again to renew your certificate. 
Register of Accidents, Incidents and First Aid 
You are responsible for filling out the Register of Accidents, Incidents and First Aid. Every time you provide assistance to someone, you must enter all the relevant information, such as your name, the injured worker’s name, the date and the time. 
Keep your knowledge up to date
While your certificate is valid, we provide a number of tools for first aiders who would like to keep their knowledge up to date: 
our information clips 
the manuel Secourisme en milieu de travail 
a l’application mobile en secourisme  
Use of specialized equipment
You may not use specialized equipment such as oxygen. Your employer must ensure that you have been trained in the use of any specialized equipment provided.



        See also      


 Secourisme en milieu de travail application – Mobile app







        Forms and publications      


Manuel de secourisme en milieu de travail - 9e édition (Guide et modèle)



La formation des secouristes en milieu de travail : La défibrillation cardiaque en milieu de travail : une onde de choc pour la vie! (Document d’information)



Registre d'accidents, d'incidents et de premiers secours (Document d’information)



Demande de formation de secouristes (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Règlement sur les normes minimales de premiers secours et de premiers soins










Secondary menu


 First aid in the workplace
 Active page


First Aid in the Workplace program


What it means to be a first aider in the workplace


Who pays what for first aid in the workplace?


First Aid in the Workplace training providers and instructors


Register of Accidents, Incidents and First Aid


First aid equipment













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank