Who pays what for first aid in the workplace? 


The CNESST
We provide financial assistance for training for workers in an establishment or on a construction site based on a percentage that is established for the sector of activity. The subsidy is paid to the training provider in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract.

Percentage of workers for whom training is paid

Establishments
Mining (excluding quarries)
Forestry (excluding sawmills)
Silviculture
Construction
5%
20%
20%
20%
10%
The number of subsidized first aid courses is valid for 3 years. If the CNESST has already paid for courses for your establishment in the past 3 years, this is considered in the calculation.  

Example
For a company with 220 workers in one establishment, training will be subsidized for 11 first aiders.
5% x 220 workers = 11 workers 
If 2 workers in the company have a valid certificate, that is, they completed the course in the past 3 years, then training will be subsidized for 9 first aiders.

The employer
The employer covers the cost: 
of setting up and maintaining first aid services in each of their establishments 
associated with the absence of the worker who is taking the course 
of any travel expenses for the worker who is taking the course when it is given within a 40 km radius of their regular workplace 
For each of their establishments, if the number of workers taking the course is higher than the number of workers for whom training is subsidized, the provider will bill the employer for training after reaching an agreement with them.  



        See also      


 Secourisme en milieu de travail application – Mobile app







        Forms and publications      


 La formation des secouristes en milieu de travail : parce que chaque minute compte (Document d’information)



Demande de formation de secouristes (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Règlement sur les normes minimales de premiers secours et de premiers soins





Règlement sur la santé et la sécurité dans les travaux d’aménagement forestier










Secondary menu


 First aid in the workplace
 Active page


First Aid in the Workplace program


What it means to be a first aider in the workplace


Who pays what for first aid in the workplace?


First Aid in the Workplace training providers and instructors


Register of Accidents, Incidents and First Aid


First aid equipment













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank