Workers who are not covered


The CNESST protects the majority of workers in Québec. However, certain categories are not covered by the legislation administered by the CNESST.
Loi sur les normes du travail
Workers who are totally excluded
The following workers are not covered by the Loi sur les normes du travail:
self-employed workers
members of the Canadian Armed Forces
workers who carry out employment-related activities both in Québec and outside Québec for an employer who does not have a residence, domicile, business, head office or office in Québec
employees who carry out employment-related activities only outside Québec, but who are domiciled or reside in Québec, for an employer who has no residence, domicile, business, head office or office in Québec
the staff of an embassy or consulate located in Québec
beneficiaries referred to in the Loi sur la santé et les services sociaux pour les autochtones cris who are working toward their physical, mental or social rehabilitation in one of the following institutions: a CLSC (local community services centre), a CSS (social services centre), a hospital centre or a reception centre
health care professionals
people who perform compensatory work in connection with a criminal offence
incarcerated persons
people who perform work under the Young Volunteers measure, an employment assistance or social assistance and support measure or program focused on training or the acquisition of skills, vocational guidance, workplace integration, the development of autonomy and social and professional integration or an employment assistance measure that includes exploration or observation during a training period
workers in sectors of activity governed by the Canada Labour Code (federal) such as:
	international and interprovincial services related to:
		road transport
railways
maritime and river transport (including related services)
telephone, cable and telegraph systems
ferries, pipelines, tunnels and bridges

radio or television broadcasting services including cablevision (except Télé-Québec)
air transport services (including aircraft operations and aerodromes)
banks (except credit unions)
grain elevator companies
uranium mining and processing companies

Workers who are partially excluded
Workers subject to the Construction Decree and senior managers are covered only by labour standards relating to retirement, psychological or sexual harassment and family leave. They are not covered by the other standards.
The following workers are covered only by standards relating to retirement and psychological harassment. They are not covered by the other standards:
athletes who must pursue an academic program to be part of a sports team
students who work during the school year in a company selected by an educational institution in accordance with a work initiation program approved by the Minister of Education
workers under contract whose remuneration is fixed by a regulation of the Government of Québec
workers who provide care to a person:
	in the person’s home
on an occasional basis
		or
whose employment is based on a family or community assistance relationship
and whose employer who does not seek to make a profit.

Loi sur l’équité salariale
Workers who are excluded
People who work in a company with fewer than 10 workers are not covered by the Loi sur l’équite salariale. In this case, the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms applies instead.
Other workers are covered by the Loi sur l’équite salariale, with the following exceptions:
students who work in a position intended for students only during their summer holidays
students who work during the school year in an establishment chosen by an educational institution to integrate practical experience with theoretical training as part of an accredited program
students who work in their field of study at the educational institution where they are studying
police officers and firefighters
senior managers
self-employed workers as defined in the Loi sur l’équite salariale
trainees in a vocational training program recognized by law
workers who are permanently assigned outside Québec
people who carry out an activity under an employment assistance measure or program
Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail
Senior managers are considered to represent their employer. They are not protected by the Loi sur la santé et sécurité du travail.
Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles
The following workers are not protected by the Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles:
professional athletes whose main source of income is sport
workers outside Québec established outside Québec during their assignment and who are still living abroad after 5 years
Personal coverage
Some workers are protected by the Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles only if they have personal coverage. This coverage is optional. Eligible workers must apply for it. The following workers are eligible:
partners
commissioners of a school board
executive officers
part-time or full-time union officers
domestics
mayors
members whose sole function is to sit on a board of directors
members of a municipal council
members of a regional county municipality (RCM) council
sole proprietors who employ at least one worker
home childcare providers
intermediate or family-type resources
self-employed workers
Personal coverage does not make these workers eligible for the For a Safe Maternity Experience Program.



        Forms and publications      


Les normes du travail au Québec (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 84.1





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Article 90





Loi sur l’équité salariale (LES) – Article 4





Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP) – Article 8





Interpretation Guide – Règlement sur l'exclusion des établissements visés à l'article 90 de la Loi sur les normes du travail (chapitre N-1.1 a. 90 ; après refonte : chapitre N-1.1, r. 2)










Secondary menu


 Categories of workers
 Active page


Farm workers


Personnel placement agency workers


Self-employed workers


Clothing industry workers


Temporary foreign workers


Seasonal workers


Workers who are not covered













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank