Work accident


What is a work accident? It is a sudden, unexpected event that occurs at work and results in injury or illness to the workers involved.
In the event of a work accident, the worker may be entitled to benefits and services such as medical aid or rehabilitation if they need it and their claim is accepted. They must file a formal claim by completing the Worker's claim form within 6 months of the accident.
In the event of a non–work-related accident, if the worker has to take time off work, their employment relationship is protected.
Criteria for a work accident
1. Accidental event
An accidental event occurs suddenly and unexpectedly. It may be caused, for example, by actions that require a sustained and unusual effort on the part of the worker to perform certain tasks.
To be recognized as a work accident, the event must occur while the worker is doing:
the tasks for which they are employed. The event is then said to arise out of their work. For example, a welder who is welding a piece of metal and gets a chip in their eye.
or 
while the worker is doing tasks other than those they normally do, but the tasks are still related to their work. For example, a mechanic who falls while helping a coworker replace a garage sign. In this case, the event is said to occur in the course of their work. At the time of the accident, the worker must be on duty with their employer.
2. Presence of an employment injury
To be recognized as a work accident, the event must have resulted in an employment injury, that is, an injury or an illness diagnosed by a physician. There must be a causal relationship between the accident and the injury, not just a coincidence.
In the case of a non-work-related accident, if the worker has to take time off work, his or her employment relationship is protected.


Online service for workers
La Réclamation du travailleur (Worker claim) is a service available from MonEspace CNESST that allows you to claim compensation or reimbursement. By using this service, your file can be processed more quickly.
The CNESST will inform you by email of the status of your file. You will be asked to consult messages and documents placed in this secure space.
Fill in the work claim 







        Forms and publications      


En cas d’accident ou de maladie du travail… voici ce qu’il faut savoir! (Document d’information)



Worker's claim (Formulaire)



Avis de l'employeur et demande de remboursement (ADR) – Accident du travail – Maladie professionnelle (Formulaire)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les accidents du travail et les maladies professionnelles (LATMP)










Secondary menu


 Workers
 Active page


Compensation and reimbursements


Compensation


Income replacement indemnity


Income replacement indemnity for the first 14 days


Compensation for bodily injury


Retirement plan indemnity


Death benefits


RL-5 and T5007 tax slips




Reimbursements and allowance


Personal home assistance allowance


Reimbursement for damaged clothing


Reimbursement for damaged orthotic or prosthetic devices


Reimbursement for medical aid


Reimbursement of the cost of routine home maintenance work


Reimbursement of travel, meal and accommodation expenses


Remboursement de frais liés aux formations pour les mécanismes de prévention propres à un chantier de construction






Work accident or occupational disease
Active page


Occupational disease


Work accident


What should you do if you have a work accident?


The worker’s claim process: step by step


Admissibility of a claim


Choosing between the CNESST and another compensation plan


Relapse, recurrence or aggravation of an employment injury















Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank