Worker training


Training workers is an essential step in their integration into the workplace and their professional development. Employers have an obligation to train their employees.
Training is also an opportunity for the employer:
to inform their staff about the tasks to be performed and to ensure that new knowledge is clearly understood
to provide the necessary training for workers to perform the tasks required of them effectively
to train workers to ensure that they have acquired the necessary skills to perform the tasks required of them effectively
to make the requirements of the job known
Training is necessary to create a safe workplace and create winning conditions in occupational health and safety management.
Who needs training?
Any worker who is:
newly hired, whether young, experienced, a newcomer or retired from another job
performing a task for the first time, even if they have been with the company for some time
performing a task following a change in a work method or the introduction of new technology
returning to the company after a long absence
Topics to be covered during training
During training, the worker must be given information on:
the names of their immediate supervisor and the supervisor’s support person, if they have one
wages and the work schedule
the specific tasks to be performed
work methods and safety rules
the risks present in their workplace and the means of prevention implemented
the particularities of the job
operating rules, policies and guidelines
hazardous products if they have to be in contact with such products
Training required by the employer
Workers are considered to be at work when they are doing training, doing a trial period, in meetings or travelling for the employer. They must be paid for these hours even if the start date of the work is later and regardless of the location of the training.

Important
The employer should inform workers in advance of the guidelines and scales established in their organization for the reimbursement of expenses related to travel that they require.
In the absence of such guidelines, the employer may have to pay all of the worker's expenses.

Expenses related to training required by the employer
The employer must reimburse the worker for certain reasonable expenses related to training, such as expenses related to:
accommodation
meals
parking
transport
If the employer makes the worker pay the cost of training and the resulting expenses, they must reimburse these expenses.
Training not required by the employer

When the training is not required by the employer, for example training required by a professional order, the employer does not have to reimburse the worker for the expenses related to the training.


Example
Jean-Philippe has to do training to keep his title in a professional order and to retain the right to practice his profession.
Since this is a requirement of his professional order, his employer does not have to reimburse him for the cost of the training.

Training and information on hazardous products
In workplaces where workers are in contact with hazardous products, the employer may allow the use, handling, storage or warehousing of these products only if the following 2 conditions are met:
the hazardous product has a label and a safety data sheet that meet the regulatory requirements
the worker exposed to the product, or likely to be exposed to the product, has received the training and information required to safely perform the work assigned to them
In this context, the employer must put a hazardous products training and information program in place that complies with WHMIS. The program may be established by:
the health and safety committee
the employer, in consultation with the certified association, where there is no health and safety committee
the employer with the workers or their representative in the establishment, where there is no certified association
The program must include:
information on the nature and meaning of the information on labels, signs or safety data sheets
training on:
	hazards, including hazard statements and precautionary statements, for each hazardous product present in the workplace
precautions to be taken with respect to fugitive emissions, intermediary products undergoing reactions in a reaction or process vessel and hazardous waste in the workplace
the procedure to be followed in an emergency
the place where material safety data sheets are kept, how to access them, the technology relating to the medium on which they are kept and how to transfer them to hard copy




        Laws and regulations      


Règlement sur l’information concernant les produits dangereux





Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT)










Secondary menu


 Work schedule
 Active page


Standard work week


Presence at work, breaks and weekly rest period


Worker training


Right to refuse to work


Right to refuse to perform a task


Right to refuse to work overtime




Staggered work hours













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank