Worker participation in OHS management


Worker participation is a winning condition for effective occupational health and safety (OHS) management. OHS management is a responsibility shared by both employers and workers, who cooperate to eliminate risks. 
The employer must demonstrate its commitment and adopt a prevention strategy, for example by supervising, training and appropriately equipping its workers. Workers have experience with the risks in the workplace and can propose solutions. 
The objective is to create a culture of cooperation, openness and respect when it comes to occupational health and safety, where ideas and solutions are freely shared and implemented in order to establish a safe work environment and respond to the concerns raised. 

Did you know?
The employer must organize activities that allow employees to:

participate in hazard identification
suggest preventive measures
To this end, the employer must provide workers with the necessary resources and time. 
Getting workers to participate in the application of safe behaviours and OHS rules is easier when they can participate in the prevention strategy.

How to foster worker participation
To identify, correct and control risks and foster worker participation in occupational health and safety management, the employer can implement the following 3 prevention mechanisms: 
an OHS prevention program or action plan
the creation of an occupational health and safety committee (in French only)
the designation of a safety representative or liaison officer 
Regardless of the priority group or sector of activity to which they belong, all employers are invited to implement these prevention mechanisms and to sollicit the participation of their workers.
How to foster effective worker participation
Here are some examples of what an employer and its workers can do.
Employer

To foster worker participation, the employer can:
integrate health and safety aspects into each worker’s role or task description
consult workers and have them participate in the evaluation of risks associated with their tasks
encourage workers and provide them with the tools needed to suggest improvements to health and safety
consult workers and include them and their representatives in the development of instructions, procedures and policies and in the process of change, before preventive measures are adopted 
have workers participate in selecting tools, equipment and PPE before purchasing them
test solutions with workers before implementing them and get their feedback 
break down the annual action plan or prevention program into several small steps
ask workers to facilitate a safety meeting
have workers write articles on OHS in the company’s newsletter
ask a worker to train new recruits
invite workers to take part in workplace inspections
gather workers’ ideas for solving OHS problems, for example by making suggestion boxes available
include subjects relating to OHS in team meetings
include OHS meetings in the work schedule 
recognize contributions and offer incentives to participate in OHS activities

Workers

To take part in occupational health and safety management, workers can:
ask questions, report problems and make suggestions to their supervisors or coordinators at group meetings, team discussions, training sessions or individual meetings 
take part in consultation activities, for example investigations, suggestion systems or contests involving safety issues
take part in tests and activities relating to occupational health and safety issues such as working groups or selecting PPE 
report any accidents, near misses and other risks to workers’ health or safety and suggest improvements
talk with their representative and take part in occupational health and safety activities (meetings, investigations, breaks, etc.)
help draft the occupational health and safety section in the company’s newsletter
apply the knowledge they acquired during training to their tasks
be a model for new recruits and help them with occupational health and safety aspects
take care of their health and ensure their own safety and that of others
cooperate actively with the employer on occupational health and safety matters
follow instructions given during training to work safely and properly use equipment, tools and hazardous substances or materials
report any risk to the health and safety of a worker (to the employer, a supervisor or the employee representative) associated with an activity or any safety measure that appears to be inadequate
ask questions about their tasks when they see a risk to their safety
validate every new work method with the employer in order to assess the risks and eliminate them at the source

 



        See also      


 Responsabilités partagées en prévention




Agir pour améliorer sa sécurité… et celle des autres - Prévention au travail



Greenﬁeld Global : la SST au premier plan - Prévention au travail 



L’entrevue avec Danny Bégin : l’art de devenir un gestionnaire performant en santé et sécurité - Prévention au travail



La prise en charge de la SST, c’est l’affaire de tous! - Prévention au travail



L'influence des leaders sur la performance en SST d'une entreprise - Prévention au travail 






        Forms and publications      


Guide de prévention en milieu de travail à l'intention de la petite et moyenne entreprise, 2e édition (Guide et modèle)



Outil d'identification des risques (Document d’information)



Certificat d'engagement en santé et en sécurité du travail (Document d’information)






        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur la santé et la sécurité du travail (LSST)










Secondary menu


 Organizing prevention
 Active page


How to manage occupational health and safety in your company


Winning conditions in occupational health and safety


Training clips to support you in your OHS management













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank