Workers 14 years of age or over


A person can start working in Quebec when they are 14 years old.
They are workers who have rights and obligations (in French only) with respect to work. They are also covered in the event of a work accident or occupational disease.
Therefore, their employer has the same rights and obligations (in French only) toward them as toward all workers.
For example, employers must:
provide appropriate instruction, supervision and training
provide the necessary personal protective equipment
Conditions that apply depending on age
The employer must, with the involvement of the health and safety committee, identify and analyze risks that may particularly affect the health and safety of young people aged 16 or under. 
The health and safety representative and the liaison officer must make recommendations to the health and safety committee or to the employer concerning :
risks that could particularly affect the health and safety of young people aged 16 or under 
tasks that could affect their physical and psychological development.
An employer is prohibited from requiring a person under 18 years of age to:
perform work that exceeds their abilities
that might:
	compromise their education
adversely affect their health or physical or moral development


Note
A number of special provisions apply to a young person’s school attendance and work schedule.




        See also      


 Je pense à embaucher de jeunes travailleurs







        Laws and regulations      


Loi sur les normes du travail (LNT) – Articles 84.2 à 84.7





Interpretation Guide – Section  84.2 to 84.7










Secondary menu


 Special status
 Active page


Training periods and trainees


Trainees


Different types of training periods


Before and during the training period


Educational institution considered as employer (in French only)


In the event of a work accident during the training period




Volunteers


Senior managers


Real  estate brokers


Students who work at a summer camp


Personal caregivers


Natural caregivers


Young workers
Active page


Young people under 14 years of age


Workers 14 years of age or over


A young person’s school attendance and work schedule




Domestic workers













Help us improve our website




Was the information on this page helpful to you?





Yes



No





What information are you looking for? 


We will use your comments to improve the information.
Avoid entering personal or file-related information. Please note that you will not receive a reply.
Any questions about a file? Use our online inquiry service.  
Would you like to file a complaint? Consult our Complaints and recourses section.





 




Leave this field blank