Find information about labour standards, pay equity or occupational health and safety




Recherche



Search the website



 












Most viewed




Statutory holidays
Work accident
Preventive withdrawal
Minimum wage


















  Asbestos: class action






See the notice to class members regarding claims for compensation from U.S. trusts and funds to compensate individuals for injuries related to asbestos products.














Do you experience any of the following situations?












I had an accident or illness at work


Have you been injured while carrying out your tasks or have you developed an occupational disease at work? We can answer your questions to help you recover and return to work safely.



 

















COVID-19


The CNESST wants to remind that it is important to become familiar with sanitary measures, share them with others and follow them to the letter to help protect everyone’s health and safety.












I am expecting a child 


The birth of a child is a happy time in life. This moment can also lead you to ask yourself a lot of questions.


 



















To better understand your approaches with the CNESST
Employers
Employers, you have responsibilities and obligations towards the CNESST and towards your workers. Learn more about your obligations and responsibilities as well as the steps to be taken with the CNESST.
Consult procedures and forms for employers (French only)
Suppliers
Suppliers, access our forms and do your various procedures with the CNESST.
Consult procedures and forms for suppliers (French only)
Health professionals
Health professionals, find out about your roles and responsibilities, pricing, billing and the provision of care or orthotics and prosthetics as providers for the CNESST in the event of work accidents or occupational diseases.
Consult procedures and forms for health professionals







To better understand your dealings with the CNESST


 



















Customer service
We make every effort to serve you better and offer you high quality labor services. Do not hesitate to contact us.